 Even when Trump manages to respond to this crisis, he’s put seniors in more danger. About one and three older Floridians rely on Social Security as a sole source of their income and over four and a half million count on Medicare, yet Donald Trump’s executive orders threaten the survival and stability of these critical programs. Make no mistake. Neither of these men will walk into the White House without the blessing of Florida’s seniors. Right. Right. Yes. There’s no question about that. Much has made in the rise of the youth vote, and thank God for it, but it is residents who are 65 and older who still swing elections here in the Sunshine State. There’s no doubt about that. The road to the White House travels through Florida, and about three-quarters of our seniors turn up at the polls every single election. While Trump closes down the government’s pandemic strike force, lies to Americans about the threat that it poses, or pushes another quack cure, Joe Biden actually has a plan to get COVID-19 under control. For the long-term security of our seniors, Joe Biden has a plan that actually strengthens Social Security compared to just a few weeks ago when shockingly Donald Trump made it clear he would shred the funding mechanism for this vital safety net for our seniors. You just can’t make this stuff up. This man wants to try to win Florida, and he would shred that vital safety net. Joe Biden rightly says, “This is a battle for the soul of our nation.” There is no question about that. In that battle, Joe Biden will not allow vital programs like Social Security fall victim to this virus. It is the lifesaving program for millions of American senior citizens. Let me be very clear, Joe Biden won’t sacrifice Social Security or threatened the future of Medicare to slay this virus like Trump has already proposed. Joe Biden will protect social security with all the political muscle he can muster. The inadequate response to the coronavirus pandemic has caused a crisis in our nursing homes and long-term care facilities. As Trump continues to sit on his hands, Joe Biden released a plan to increase safety, oversight, and transparency so our loved ones can be cared for with the dignity that they deserve. When it comes to protecting Medicare or lowering prescription drug costs, you know Joe Biden will go to bat for Florida seniors because he’s done it all his life. Protecting seniors isn’t just some reality show gimmick that Joe Biden trots out for cameras one day and then moves on from the next day. Protecting seniors is who Joe Biden is. It’s who he’s always been. From The Villages in Central Florida to Century Village, Sunrise Lakes, and Kings Point here in Broward County, in their heart of hearts, our seniors know that they can truly count on Joe Biden. They can count on Joe Biden to protect Social Security, to serve Medicare, and make their medications less expensive and more affordable, and deep down, seniors know they can count on Joe Biden to take down this virus and safely reunite them with their friends, children, and grandchildren. Florida’s seniors know they have a friend and ally in Joe Biden because he’s always stood by them, and even in a crisis like this one, he’ll never leave their side. That trust will show itself on election day. It already is. I just know it. 21 days, my friends. Onto victory for Florida, for Florida’s seniors, and for all of America. Thank you so much. Please welcome former Weston City Commissioner Toby Feuer. Hello, Broward County. My name is Toby Feuer. I was born in the Bronx. I grew up in New York City. I got married and had two wonderful children. I worked for 25 years at Brooklyn College in administration and moved here to Broward County in 1998 to allegedly retire. Well, it wasn’t much of a retirement for me. I immediately became involved with my condo association and local community, and I served eight years on the Weston City Commission. I like to call myself a professional volunteer. I work with ORT America, the Weston Music Society, Weston Friends of the Library, Hadassah, and the American Association of University Women to name just a few. In short, I like to stay busy. We always hear people say, “This is the most important election of our lifetime,” but for Florida seniors, this really is the most important election we will ever vote in. Like so many seniors, I paid into Social Security for my entire life, and I planned my retirement around that income, but now Donald Trump is threatening to defund Social Security. Some of my neighbors depend on Social Security as their sole source of income, and for a president to break his promise to us unconscionable, especially now in the middle of a pandemic. Before COVID-19, my weeks with jammed with so many things: meetings, social gatherings, trips, and so much more, but then everything changed. COVID-19 has turned my life upside down. Meetings are over Zoom now. I try to keep in touch with friends over the phone, but it’s simply not the same. I am incredibly fortunate to be living with my daughter who works from home, but I don’t ever leave my house unless it’s to purchase groceries and essentials every two weeks. The simple truth is it didn’t have to be this bad. None of us want to live our lives at home in front of a computer screen, and if Donald Trump hadn’t lied to us, and if he had decided to take this virus seriously, things might be different for Florida seniors. But this administration has written seniors off as expendable. Well, guess what? We aren’t, and we vote. The president has been a disaster for seniors. We deserve better. We deserve a leader who cares about us. I know Joe Biden will look after us. I know Joe will protect and strengthen Social Security, and I know he will lower the cost of prescription drugs. I know that he has a real plan to beat COVID-19 so that our friends and neighbors, we could see them again, our kids, our grandkids, and get life back to normal as soon as possible. Joe Biden will always fight for seniors. That’s why I encourage you and ask you to please get out to vote either by mail or in person for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris to be our next President and Vice President of the United States. Thank you so much. Please welcome the next President of the United States, Joe Biden. Yeah. Hello, hello, hello. [inaudible 00:09:11]. Good to see you all. Please, please, take a seat if you have one. Thank you so very, very much for… It’s good to be back in Florida. I want to thank my good friend Debbie Wasserman Schultz, congresswoman. She’s been a tireless fighter. Where’s Debbie? There she is. Thank you, Debbie. You’ve been a friend a long time, and thank you for all the encouragement. Toby, I also want to thank you. Toby moved from a high rent district in Brooklyn. That’s the highest rent district in America right now these days. [inaudible 00:09:48], good to see you. I want to thank you for that kind introduction. It’s wonderful to be here with all of you to hear the stories, talk about how we’re going to get through these tough times, the difficult times. … tough times and difficult times. Today’s story is a familiar one here in South Florida. We’re all living in some version of it right now with some of the most important parts of our lives being put on hold and the same story being lived by people like Carl Schechner, who many of you know well. Carl’s here today, I’m told. Hey Carl. How are you, man? Good to see you. The light was shining right in my eyes looking at you, man. I apologize. Carl is 39 years old. No, 93 years old, but he acts like he’s 39 years old. And the pillar of this community. So much so that a few years back, you all decided to rename this community center in his honor. I’ve heard wonderful things about you, Carl, and looking forward to saying hello to you privately. I had the pleasure of meeting Carl back in 2012. He may not remember it, but his story is what this community and this country is all about. Carl is a son of an immigrant. Carl served our nation honorably in the second World War and met his sweetheart, Anita, when they were … They’ve been married now for 67 years. Together, they built a family, four children, seven grandchildren. And more than 30 years, they made home here, staying engaged in all the local issues and holding local office, catching Sunday matinees and performances at the arts center and socializing with neighbors, enjoying nights in the town. And a couple of times, two, three times a week, going out. But their story, like so many others, is a quintessential American story these days, but it has been interrupted this year. Carl and Anita haven’t been out, I’m told, to a restaurant in seven months and there are no more Sunday matinees. Other than getting groceries, they spend most of their time in their apartment like so many people do. It’s harder than ever to spend time with the people you love, other than on Zoom or on a computer connection. We’ve all felt that sense of interruption in our lives. And we all know that this isn’t normal, that things didn’t have to be this bad. They didn’t have to be this bad. We look around at our neighbors and we know people are hurting. A lot of folks are worried about making their next rent payment, their next mortgage payment, whether or not they can purchase their prescription drugs or put food on the table. That’s been the entire story of my view of Donald Trump’s presidency. The fact that he’s never been focused on what matters. He’s never been focused on you. His handling of this pandemic has been erratic, just like his presidency has been. And it has prevented Florida’s seniors and people all across the country from getting the relief that they need. Donald Trump hasn’t just been willing to not do the work. I think it’s beyond that. I’m not sure he cares about delivering any real help. I think it’s both. People say he’s not willing to do the work. Well, I don’t think he cares much about it. While you’re losing precious time with your loved ones, he’s been stuck in a sand trap in one of his golf courses. And when he does decide to lift a finger, it doesn’t help you. It’s to propose new tax cuts for billionaires, and that’s not hyperbole. That’s not hyperbole. 100 wealthiest billionaires in America are expected to get another $30 billion tax cut he’s proposing. We know what happened the last time a tax cut was passed in 2017 when he came into office. Pharmaceutical companies got billions of dollars in tax breaks, and then they turned around and raised prices for medicines that you rely on to stay healthy. And they’re still doing it even during the pandemic. And quite frankly, it’s unconscionable. But Trump doesn’t really care about lowering the healthcare costs because he’s beholden to the health insurance companies and the drug companies. After all, he’s asking the United States Supreme Court as I speak, he’s asking them right now to strike down the entire Affordable Care Act, which would eliminate seniors’ ability … Most of you are on Medicare, but it would eliminate your ability in that act we passed, I was able to help put in place, was that you’d have preventative services and annual checkups and mammograms for free under Medicare. If it gets struck down, that gets wiped out as well. The rise in prescription drug prices for millions of seniors put Medicare trust fund at risk. And by the way, we used to talk about the Medicare trust fund. I say the Republicans want to eliminate it. But remember, Debbie will remember when, he’s not a bad guy in terms of his personality, but when the former Speaker of the House became Speaker, what’d they do? They proposed a half a billion dollar cut in Medicare from the start, right off the bat. These guys mean what they say. This President, as Debbie pointed out, has pledged to terminate the tax that’s dedicated to financing social security. Terminate it. A social security actuary, not Joe Biden or a liberal think tank or a newspaper. The actuary, the social security says, that would bankrupt social security in just a few years, putting those monthly checks for tens of millions of seniors that they rely on, and many of them, the only thing they rely on, at risk. All this president knows how to do is play games with people’s lives and families’ futures. Last week, he announced he was “walking away from the negotiations” that he never fully engaged in. He’s not walking away. He never fully engaged in them. To provide any additional relief for American families. Debbie, working like the devil in the house, they passed the HEROES Act. They passed two other pieces of legislation earlier to provide for the ability to keep people from going out of business, people being kicked out of their homes, et cetera. He turned his back on small businesses that are struggling to keep their doors open. He turned his back on firefighters and police officers and first responders who depend on local budgets, but local budgets are being broken and they have to be balanced. I’ll just make note here. When we inherited the largest recession, the greatest recession since the depression, what happened? President put me in charge of the Recovery Act, $800 billion. First thing I was able to do, and I was able to manage it myself, was I put $147 billion to just help state and local authorities be able to balance their budgets, not have to fire police officers, not have to fire firefighters, not to fire first responders, not have to close down health clinics. Local governments are strained to the breaking point. He turned his back on educators and school children, standing in the way of support to get them PPE and cleaning supplies and ventilation needed to reopen schools safely, which we could do if we funded it. He turned his back on every single worker whose job hasn’t come back. And now he says he wants a deal. One day he’s tweeting that the relief package is too big. The next day saying it’s too small. It’s all game. He thinks he’s still on his game show. No really. He acts that way. For real. This is a political game he’s playing. His latest gimmick, he wants to mail seniors a $200 prescription drug cash card with his name on it. So you’re going to get it before election with his name on it. But what are you going to do? He’s going to raid Medicare trust fund to pay for that $200, which seniors have already spent by paying money into. He thinks that he can take the money out of your pocket with one hand and put it back with his name stamped on it in the other hand and call it a gift. It’s dishonest. It’s reckless. And it doesn’t actually help anybody. In fact, all it will do is undermine the Medicare trust fund and increase overall out-of-pocket costs for seniors. Let’s be clear about this. Donald Trump has tried for almost four years, he says he wants to lower the drug price. Okay? But he hadn’t done a single thing to do it. In fact, the House of Representatives passed a bill that Debbie supported that would bring down prescription drug costs across the board, giving Medicare the power in Washington, Medicare department, the power to negotiate with the drug companies and say, “If an aspirin is going to cost, if we’re being charged …” I’m making this up. “If an aspirin is going to cost two cents an aspirin,” they said, “We’re only going to pay you a penny an aspirin.” They’re either going to do it or not. They’re going to have to do it. We’ve been fighting to get, Debbie and I and others, have been fighting to be able to do this for years. It would lower drug prices. What did President Trump do? He said, “If it passes, he’ll veto it.” Threatened to veto it. Folks, Donald Trump’s chaotic and divisive leadership has cost us far too much. 215,000 deaths from COVID-19 and rising. Experts say we’ll lose nearly another 200,000 lives in the next few months unless we fundamentally change courses. You know, I prayed for his recovery when he got COVID and I’d hoped at least he’d come out of it somewhat chastened. But what has he done? He’s just doubled down on the misinformation he did before and making it worse. He’s just doubled down on the misinformation he did before and making it worse. So many lives have been lost unnecessary because this President cares more about the stock market than he does about the well-being of seniors. One day before we crossed the threshold of 200,000 deaths, you may recall this, the President was at the campaign rally and insistent that the virus was, and I quote, “Affects virtually nobody, just elderly people with heart and other problems.” Nobody. Think about that. Who was he talking about when he said it infects virtually nobody? He was talking about America’s seniors. He was talking about you. He was talking about my family. You’ve worked hard your whole life contributing to society, building a family, building the country, serving America. You deserve security. You deserve respect and peace of mind, but you’re not getting it. And by the way, if this wasn’t so bizarre, if I tried to make a movie talking about something like this in America, you’d think I was making it up. Because Donald Trump, it’s simple, not a joke, you’re expendable. You’re forgettable. You’re virtually nobody. That’s how he sees seniors. That’s how he sees you. It’s no surprise this is the same man that looks at Americans who put their lives on the line like you did, sir, and many others maybe in this room, for our nation and calls them losers and suckers. I carried this card with me every day for the last 15 years. It’s my schedule. In the back of this schedule, I have a black box. It says, “Daily troop update.” The number of troops who died in Iraq and Afghanistan, 6,924. Not roughly 6,900, 924 because every one of these fallen angels that left a family behind deserves to be remembered. Everyone. US troops wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan, 53,000, as of today, 194. Everyone with only one sacred obligation, America, to care for those we send a war and equip them when they come home and take care of them and their families. And what did he say? Losers. My son volunteered to go to Iraq for a year. Before that, he had been in Kosovo for eight months. Best of my knowledge, the only foreigner who has a war monument and a major highway in that country named after him for his contribution to helping them set up their criminal justice system, then he volunteered to go to Iraq as attorney general for a year. My son was not a loser. And all of those left behind, he’s passed away, but all those left behind, they were heroes. They were patriots. I imagine that’s one of the reasons why six four-star generals and a whole lot of others have endorsed me who used to work for him because they know where his heart isn’t. That’s how he sees us. That’s the attitude he’s brought toward this whole crisis. This is the same man, you may remember, when he was told we were averaging 1000 lives lost per day, remember what he said? He said, “It is what it is.” Such concern and empathy. It is what it is. Well, it is what it is because he is who he is. That’s why it is what it is. This President, as Debbie referenced, back in January when he was being briefed by the intelligence community, he said, “I never read the briefing.” Didn’t know what was in. Didn’t have time. Well, [inaudible 00:24:15] ego moved him to try to convince a famous journalist to write something good about him. What happened? Bob Woodward interviewed him. He acknowledged that he knew it was a dangerous and highly communicable disease, but he did nothing. He didn’t do a thing. He didn’t tell you. He didn’t tell any American. Why? He told Woodward on tape, he told Bob he didn’t want to panic the American public. Americans don’t panic. Trump panics. His reckless personal conduct since his diagnosis is unconscionable. The longer Donald Trump is the President, the more reckless he seems to get. Thank God we only have three weeks left to go. Dr. Fauci, the most respected doc in the country on these issues, referred to the President’s announcement on the Supreme Court in the Rose Garden, using the White House as a backdrop for political events. He said it was a super spreader event. And how is Trump responding? He’s running a national ad quoting Dr. Fauci out of context. Fauci had said way back in March, referring to public health officials across the nation, he said, quote, “I can’t imagine anybody could be doing more,” end of quote, meaning public health officials. But the Trump campaign, which is not unusual because I’ve had a piece of it, the trump campaign has deliberately lied. They have put Dr. Fauci in their ad asserting that Fauci was talking about Trump when he said they couldn’t have done anymore. And Fauci’s a man of integrity. After that ad came out, he said, “I did not give permission to use that quote and I wasn’t referring to the President.” Even after Fauci said that he didn’t say that about the President, the Trump ad campaign said they were going to continue to use the ad knowing it was a lie. And as a consequence to months of lying and misleading and irresponsible action on the part of Donald Trump, how many empty chairs are around the dining room table tonight because of his negligence? How many people’s hearts are broken? How many people have trouble going to sleep at night because you can’t just reach over and touch? They can’t hear their son or daughter’s voice on the phone, while he throws super spreader parties at the White House where Republicans hug each other without concern to the consequences. How many of you have been unable to hug your grandkids in the last seven months? I got six of them. Two of them I just see [inaudible 00:27:53] children, a boy and a girl live not far from me and they can walk through the woods. The only way I can see them, I stand in the back porch and they stand down and I bribe them with Haagen-Dazs bars. But every single day I contact them. But I can’t hug them. I can’t embrace it. And I’m luckier than most because they’re nearby, those two of those six. My grandkids, your grandkids, we hope will grow up to treat one another with kindness, respect and empathy, qualities the President has never, ever shown. It’s become painfully clear as his careless arrogant, reckless COVID response has caused one of the worst tragedies in American history. The only senior that Donald Trump cares about, the only senior is the senior Donald Trump [inaudible 00:28:52] seem to do anything for. And by the way, minority communities are getting particularly hit by this. You realize as of about a month ago, on a percentage basis, 1 in 1000 African Americans in all of American have died. And the estimate is, by the end of this year, 1 in 500 African Americans in America will die. 1 in 500. If he doesn’t do something quickly and we hit 400,000, that is more people, the same number of people that died in the war you fought of all four years. 400,000 dead in War War II, in less than a year if he doesn’t move. The only one Donald Trump would do anything for is Donald Trump. Look, folks, you all know we’re so much better than this. We’re so much better than this. We can contain this virus. We can fully reopen our economy. We can bring Congress together to pass real relief, and then implement a comprehensive agenda to build back better. My economic proposal … And by the way, it’s not a liberal think tank or a Democratic think tank that says this. An independent analysis put out by Moody’s, a Wall Street firm, projects that my economic plan will create 18.6 million good paying jobs between now and the end of the first term. Seven million more jobs than the President’s plan. And create a trillion more dollars in economic growth than the President’s plan. It’s solid. It’s real. Here’s how my plan works. I’m not going to raise taxes on a single solitary American making less than $400,000 a year. You won’t pay a penny more. It’s a guarantee. But I’m going to ask big corporations and the wealthy to begin to pay their fair share to straighten out the tax structure. That money will allow us to invest in working people. I carry it with me … I don’t know if I have it with me now, I don’t … a card that lists all of what is in the tax code. We went ahead, the President’s tax plan, Barack and I were suggesting we reduce corporate tax from 35% to 28. That was the consensus. He reduced it to 21%. You know how much that costs? $1.3 trillion. We just take it back up to 28, and we’ll generate $1.3 trillion more. 91 of the Fortune 500 companies don’t pay a penny in tax. Not a single solitary cent. If we made sure there was a minimum tax at 15%, that would add another $400 billion. We’re going to take this money and we’re going to invest in a working people, in a growing middle class and make sure everyone is included in the deal. I want tax reform in the tax code because we’re spending your tax dollars on the wrong things. As I said, Donald Trump cut the tax from 35 to 21 costing the treasury a fortune. As I said, if we raised it back to 28%, $1.3 trillion would be coming to the treasury over the next decade, instead of giving big corporations hundreds of billions to pay for buying back their own stock, moving jobs overseas. We should invest it in cures for cancer, diabetes, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s. That’s why I proposed giving the National Institute of Health $50 billion over the next four years to go after cancer, diabetes, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s. If we do not, and no drug company has the capacity to do it, if we do not find an answer to Alzheimer’s, then the next 19 years, every single solitary bed that exists in the United States of America now will be occupied by an Alzheimer’s patient. Look, my dad used to have an expression. He said, “Joey, if everything’s equally important to you, nothing’s important to you. You have to have priorities.” What are our priorities? Our priorities is to make sure that everybody in America has an equal shot. This is about you. It’s about what’s fair. It’s about what our priorities should be, and we can deal with the scourge of cancer and these other diseases when Donald Trump has no interest. In fact, he wants to do the opposite. He proposes more tax cuts for the super wealthy. Like Donald Trump, we’re going to ease the burden on major costs in your life, unlike him. Including the financial burden of caregiving so many families are now carrying. Right now, as you probably know, and you have friends, 800,000 Americans are eligible for home community care through Medicaid, signed up for it, have been waiting an average of five years. They’re waiting for a phone call back. For some, five years. My plan makes a bold investment so the states can clear the waiting list and also take the pharmaceutical companies. Will allow Medicaid to, again, use its enormous bargaining power to negotiate prices and bring the costs down for everyone, not just seniors. Give all Americans access to those lower prices. And what he also hates my doing and so do the drug companies, we’re going to establish a board like it is in other countries of outside experts to set limits on the prices of new specialty drugs that are life-saving drugs that costs an arm and leg, figuratively and literally, that have no competition. This board is going to set up and say, “This is how much you can charge based on what you’ve invested. You make a healthy profit, but you will not be able to raise the price of the drug without proof that you’ve taken other action that you have required you to improve the drug.” So it can only be raised with the cost of medical inflation. Independent analysis found that my plan will slash the cost of prescription drugs by 60%. How many of you know somebody who’s had to sell things just to get the drugs that have gone up exponentially? We’re going to protect Social Security and increase benefits for millions of seniors. I’ll fight to protect your pensions, including fixing older employer pensions, so many Floridians earned and deserve. Folks, I guess we’ll see them with this. I’m confident. I know as bad as things are we say, “Oh my God, how can it get better?” I am absolutely confident we can do this and more. We just have to come together. I’m running as a proud Democrat. I’m going to govern as an American president. I’m going to work as hard for those who voted against me as those who voted for me. That’s the job of a president. A duty to care. To care for everyone. And after all we’ve been through, all America’s accomplished, all the years that we’ve stood as a beacon to the world, we cannot let ourselves remain divided, but we have to vote. Go to, Iwillvote.com/fl. You can still request your vote by mail ballot. The deadline’s October 24. Request your ballot. If you have it already mail it or drop it in one of the drop boxes today. Look, I’m tired of us all walking around with our heads down, as if there’s nothing we can do. This is the United States of America. There’s not a single thing beyond our capacity, nothing we’ve ever decided to do we’ve not accomplished, when we done it together. Remember when we were kids, you had to learn about famous speech John Kennedy made about going to the moon. Everybody remembers the different pieces of it. The part I remember, my college used to kid me in the Senate when I was there. When answering the unasked question, “Why was he doing it?” He said, “Because we refuse to postpone.” We refuse to postpone one more day, which is within our capacity as Americans to do. There’s nothing beyond our capacity. There’s no limit to our future. We’ve got to stand up, lift our heads up. The only thing that can tear America part is America itself. And he’s well on the way trying to do that. Everybody knows who Donald Trump is. That’s within who we are. Who we are. We choose hope over fear. Unity, over division. Science over fiction. And yes, truth over lies. We can do this folks. I promise you. But you got to vote. May god bless you all, and may God protect our troops. Thank you for listening. You’re a very patient audience. Thank you, thank you. Appreciate it.