 Your patience is commendable. We knew this was going to go long, but who knew we’re going to go into maybe tomorrow morning, maybe even longer. But look, we feel good about where we are. We really do. I’m here to tell you tonight, we believe we’re on track to win this election. We knew because of the unprecedented early vote and the mail-in vote it was going to take a while. We’re going to have to be patient until the hard work of tallying the votes is finished. And it ain’t over until every vote is counted, every ballot is counted. But we’re feeling good. We’re feeling good about where we are. We believe one of the nets has suggested we’ve already won Arizona, but we’re confident about Arizona. That’s a turnaround. We also just called it for Minnesota. And we’re still in the game in Georgia, although that’s not one we expected. And we’re feeling real good about Wisconsin and Michigan. And by the way, it’s going to take time to count the votes, we’re going to win Pennsylvania. I’ve been talking to the folks in Philly, Allegheny County, Scranton, and they’re really encouraged by the turnout and what they see. Look, we can know the results as early as tomorrow morning. But it may take a little longer. As I’ve said all along, it’s not my place or Donald Trump’s place to declare who’s won this election. That’s the decision of the American people. But I’m optimistic about this outcome. And I want to thank everyone of you who came out and voted in this election. And by the way, Chris Coons and the Democrats, congratulations here in Delaware. John Carney. Hey John, you’re the gov. Yeah, the whole team man. You’ve done a great job. I’m grateful to the poll workers, to our volunteers, our canvassers, everyone that participated in this democratic process. And I’m grateful to all of my supporters here in Delaware and all across the nation. Thank you, thank you, thank you. And folks, you heard me say it before, every time I walk out of my grandpa’s house up in Scranton he’d yell, “Joey. Keep the faith.” And my Grandma, when she was alive, “Y’all know Joey spread it.” Keep the faith guys, we’re going to win this. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Your patience is great.