Thank you, very much. Please, let’s enjoy ourselves. This is a tremendous moment for Jim and your family. And let’s just enjoy ourselves for a little while. We’ll ask Jim to say a few words. I want to hear what he has to say about his great talent, his great running ability. I find athletics to be extraordinary. I love it. Thank you for being here. And today it is my privilege to present our nation’s highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom to a legendary athlete and a legendary runner, Olympian and true American Patriot, former Congressman Jim Ryun. Jim, congratulations. Fantastic. We’re joined today by Jim’s wife, Anne. Thank you Anne, very much. Congratulations. And various family members. But his son, where’s Ned? Ned, thank you very much. Catharine, thank you very much. And I’m going to ask you to come up and say a few words, the both of you, so you better be prepared. You’ve got a lot of news back there. See, I’m being nice today. I don’t use the other word in front of the word news. But Jim’s journey started with a prayer. After being cut from his church baseball team, I can’t believe that, that must’ve been a bad day, huh, and his junior high basketball team, they probably made a mistake, he asked God for guidance. Jim wanted to know God’s plan for him. And he only had one request, that it was something to do with sports. You liked sports. That prayer was answered when Jim joined the high school track team. He joined it and had no experience whatsoever, as he said, he didn’t really know what he was doing and he didn’t know what he was doing there. In his very first mile race, however, he came in second place to the reigning state champion and a real talented person. Do you ever see him around by the way? He’s still around? Okay, that’s pretty good. He’s still saying, “What happened?” But Jim’s first time in running the mile was four minutes and 32.4 seconds. So that tells you there’s something genetically that’s pretty good, because that doesn’t happen. Four minutes, 32.4 seconds, first time he ever ran the mile. That was the last time he ever came in second in a high school race. And after that, Jim was always first. The next year, Jim ran a 3.59 mile and became the first high school athlete in history to smash the four minute barrier. That summer he also competed in the 1964 Tokyo Olympics as the youngest middle distance runner in the world, by quite a bit actually. In Jim’s senior year of high school, he ran against three time Olympic gold medal winner Pete Snell. He was good wasn’t he? But that was a bad day for Pete. Before the event, Snell reportedly said that he didn’t think Jim would really have much of a chance or be much of a factor. Jim soon proved him wrong. With 300 meters left in the race, Jim surged ahead of the pack and swept across the finish line in a fraction of his time. What was your time? Three minutes and 55.3 seconds. That’s not bad, right? Not bad? I don’t know. What did Pete say? Was he gracious about it? But he was a great runner. I mean, he was a great runner. This also right now stands in high school as a record 35 years. It took 35 years to break that record. When ESPN ranked the greatest high school athletes, listen to this, this is incredible, when ESPN ranked the greatest high school athletes of all time, all sports, they listed Jim Ryun as number one. That’s not bad for guy who couldn’t make his baseball team, right? That’s really an amazing achievement. That’s incredible. Jim continued his extraordinary athletic career at the University of Kansas. In 1966, he set his first world record in the mile at a time of three minutes and 51.3 seconds, becoming the first American to do so in more than three decades. After the race, a young fan ran up to him and asked for his autograph. That fan would soon become his future wife. That was a good autograph. That was Anne. You two are so lucky that happened. I wonder where you’d be, I guess. That’s fantastic. Great, Anne. In 1967, Jim ran an incredible 3.511 mile, which would stand as the world record mile for almost a decade. Jim still describes it as the easiest race he ever ran. Is that right? It was magic. It was magic. To this day, it’s the last time in American set the world record in the mile. So that was a while ago. What is the world record right now? So your at 3.51. 3.43 or so? Okay, that’s a long time. Training and lots of other things. We have breaking news now. This could be the big story today. That’s great. But that is some long period of time that he held the record. In 1968, Jim Bradley represented Team USA at the Mexico City Olympics and won the silver medal for the 1500 and he competed in 1972 at the Munich Olympics with great distinction. A few years later, Jim retired from running. He had been on the cover of Sports Illustrated seven times, was ranked Sportsman of the Year in 1966, was inducted into the Kansas Sports Hall of Fame and received the immortal nickname Master of the Mile. And he was, I remember it. I shouldn’t tell you that, but I remember a lot of your races. They weren’t even close, actually. In 1975, you founded the Jim Ryun Running Camps. For the past 45 years, Jim has helped teach thousands of young people to reach their fullest and best athletic potential. He has been a dedicated mentor to campers and shared in the critical importance of a Christian faith. He is very devoted to Christianity. In 1996, Jim was elected to the House of Representatives and he went on to serve five terms in Congress. I wish we had him now. We have some great people in there though, I’ll tell you. We have some great, dedicated, hard workers and they’ve done a terrific job, right? Wouldn’t you say, Ned? I think so. Some really great ones. But he served five terms from Kansas’s Second District. He was a principled, committed, very tough and beloved lawmaker. That’s what they said. He was tough and yet beloved. That’s a rare combination. Jim has personified the greatness of our country throughout his life, whether he was running on a track race or whether he was doing anything there was, running an office or running for office. He was always the top person. People respected him more. I’ve heard it for a long time. I’d ask about him and they’d say, “When he was in Washington, he was just a respected person.” He was a giant of American athletics, a dedicated public servant and a man of charity, generosity, and faith. He’s a great man, actually. Jim, thank you so much for your unfailing devotion to our country and congratulations on a lifetime of incredible success. Not only athletically, that was obviously a big deal, but what you’ve done in life and even with your family has been just incredible. So I’d like to congratulate you very much. And before we present you with the incredible beautiful metal, I’d like to ask maybe Catharine and Ned to come up and say a few words, if you’d like, and talk about your father. Please. Thank you very much. That's so nice. Thank you, Catharine. Thank you very much. Congratulations. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. 
















