Yeah. Go ahead. Please, go ahead. Yeah. Well, he did a bad job for minorities. I did much more for minorities than he did. And if you look at our numbers prior to the plague coming in, and those numbers will soon be back, you’ll see I did a much better job than Obama did by far for African Americans, for Asian Americans, for women, for anything group you look at, far better than Obama did. Yeah. Yeah, go ahead please. Well, we don’t want that to happen. [crosstalk 00:00:53] Yeah, we don’t want that to happen. But people have to come into our country legally. Right now we have 267 miles of wall. We’re doing very well on keeping the drugs out and keeping people out that aren’t supposed to be here. But people have to come into our country legally. [crosstalk 00:01:09] Go ahead. We’re taking a look at it very strongly. We’re working with representatives of DACA, and we’re also working on a big immigration bill, which is merit-based and something that people are going to be very happy with. We’re doing a very big immigration bill and we’re doing a very big healthcare bill. The other thing we’re working on very strongly, and it’s very important, is prescription drug prices. The drug companies are not exactly happy. In fact, I assume they’ll be taking ads. But we’re doing a drug prescription bill, in a sense. We’ve already signed it for the most part. One goes into effect very soon, that’s going to get us to be tied with or lower than the lowest drug prices anywhere in the world. Right now, the United States, because of what has happened over years, we have the highest prescription drug prices in the world. We will soon have the lowest. Go ahead, Jennifer. We’re looking at TikTok. We may be banning TikTok. We may be doing some other things. There are a couple of options, but a lot of things are happening. So we’ll see what happens. But we are looking at a lot of alternatives with respect to TikTok. About what? We're going to have a report for you tomorrow on that. So we ended a rule that was a very horrible rule for people in suburbia and the suburbs. That rule has been a very unfair rule for a long time, and it was going to be made a lot worse by Biden and Cory Booker. It’s a rule that basically you build low-income housing and you build other forms of housing. Also having to do with zoning and destroy people that have lived in communities in suburbia for years, they’ve lived there and they want to destroy their lives and destroy what they have. That has been going on for a long time. I ended the rule, so people living in the suburbs will no longer have that problem. Thank you. Thank you very much. Herman Cain was a great man. He did a fantastic job. He was respected by everybody. He was loved by everybody, and we will miss Herman Cain. No. I don't think he did, no. Thank you.
















