Let them come in please. Great job. Great. Thank you for the tour. That’s something. Yeah, no, it was a great honor. If you feel more comfortable, you’ll say a couple of words, you might want to take the masks off. Otherwise, you can leave them. On either way you want. Look how fast you took that off. Well, thank you very much everybody for being here. We took a really incredible tour and law enforcement has just done such a great job working with the National Guard and working with a lot of people, but we’re here to show our support for Kenosha and Wisconsin. The state of Wisconsin has been very good to me. I love the people. We’ve done a lot for the state and we will continue to do a lot for the state. We’re all in this together. And this was an example of what can happen when you do it right. I’m pleased to be joined today by Attorney General Bill Barr, who’s doing really a fantastic job. And Bill, thank you very much for being here. Secretary Chad Wolf. Chad. Chad, thank you. Ron Johnson, Senator Ron Johnson, who’s outstanding I have to tell you. So respected within the beautiful halls of Congress. And I appreciate the great job you do Ron. I hope the people of Wisconsin appreciate how good a senator he is. Do they have any idea? Do they know how good he is? I think they do. You’re never going to get not elected Ron or I’ll be very unhappy. One of the best. And also a young Congressman that’s been a warrior, true warrior. Has been a fighter not only for some other very good causes, but for this cause because he was the first one to call me and say, “We have a problem.” And Brian, I want to thank you. Brian Style Congressmen. And you have your first reelection and I think you’re going to win it big. I hope you do. You deserve to. Also my former chief of staff. Where’s Reince? Reince. Where is my Reince? Reince Priebus, which shows that I definitely like this state because you are a very proud citizen of right here. You’re still here. You never left, did you? You never would leave. You’ve done a great job. Thank you very much Reince. Kenosha has been ravaged by anti-police and anti-American riots. They have been hit so hard and we were able to get involved. David Beth and Daniel Miskinus, who I’ve been watching a lot on television. Now today I got to know them both very well and they have done an incredible job and you’re going to say a few words in a couple of minutes and we would appreciate it. Also Zach Rodriguez, Supervisor Kenosha County, Zach. Thank you very much, Zack. Good job. You had a rough three days, but then it got well brought into backend where you wanted it, just where you wanted it. Aaron Decker, Supervisor for Kenosha. Aaron. Thank you Aaron. Good job. Thank you very much. Don Cappola, President of Wisconsin Fraternal Order of Police. Don. Thank you very much. Jerry Johnson, National Trustee of the Wisconsin Fraternal Order of Police. Jerry, thank you. People have done a fantastic job. Really, you have to be proud of them. James and Sharon Ward, pastors. Well, it was great speaking to you yesterday. And you’re really a very respected man and I really enjoyed our conversation. Thank you both very much for being here. Appreciate it. We also have Major General Paul Knapp who is around here someplace, but he was really right on the… Thank you very much, Paul. Thank you. He has been fantastic. Paul and Scott and Linda Carpenter, owners of B&L Office Furniture. Scott, you’re back there someplace. Thank you. Thank you very much. You got hit pretty hard, right? You got hit pretty hard. That’s all right. It’s going to get rebuilt. Kimberly Warner, owner of the Authentic Gifts and Report Candle Factory. That’s a very fancy name you have there, report. That’s a fancy name, but I’ll bet it was beautiful. Are you going to rebuild? Will you be rebuilding? Well, we’ll be giving you some help. Okay. We’ll be giving you some help. John Rhode III, owner of Rhode’s Camera Shop. Now I was there and that was 109 years. And you want to say a couple of words. Would you like to? Where is he? Oh, okay, good. John, stand up please. 109 years. And we’re going to help you. That’s a very, very complete rebuild we’re talking about down there. That’s incredible. If they would have responded to the first call, it would’ve been a little different story, but they did respond, which is better than some governors, frankly. And once they responded and once we took control of it, things went really well. You just met some very talented people outside and I think you’re going to have clear sailing, but we’re going to try giving you a hand. Your insurance company, your insured, right? And so they're helping and they're being responsible? You’ll let me know. You’ll let me know. You got to let me know at the end. And Ricky [Talapayatra 00:06:03]. Talapayatra. That’s a beauty. That's a good one. Go ahead please. All right, we’ll be talking to you. We’re going to be helping you with law enforcement. We’re going to be helping you with some economic development get it back in shape. Get Kenosha back in shape and we’ll get it back in I think very quickly. I really think so. And we’ll be helped by John Morrissey, City Administrator of Kenosha. John, thank you very much, John. You have your work cut out for the next little while, but you’ll be fine. You’re going to be in great shape. And Samantha Kirkman, State Representative District 61. Thank you very much. Congratulations on doing a really great job. Thank you. Thank you. Great job you’re doing. Appreciate it. And Van Wanguard, State Senator District 21. Highly respected person, actually. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Well, thank you. And your reputation’s a great one so thank you very much. And also this area is a special area. We can’t let that happen to this area. So we got here quickly and did the job. Violent mobs demolished or damaged at least 25 businesses, burned down public buildings, and threw bricks at police officers, which your police officers won’t stand for and they didn’t stand for it. These are not acts of peaceful protest, but really domestic terror. My administration coordinated with the state and local authorities to very, very swiftly deploy the National Guard surge federal law enforcement to Kenosha and stop the violence. And I strongly support the use of the National Guard in other cities. And the same thing would be happening if we did that. You’d have the same thing happened in Portland. It would happen very quickly. It would all be over very, very quickly. And I just want to thank the two of you for acting so strongly and so bravely and getting it done and the coordination has been fantastic. You still need that coordination no matter how people you send in. I just came from a visit of one of the businesses that was burned down, B&L Furniture and the great 109 year old camera shop, which I really respect because that had a reputation far beyond the state even and it’s terrible to see. Several other business owners, they’re joining us and we have some in the back also. To stop the political violence, we must also confront the radical ideology that includes this violence. Reckless far-left politicians continue to push the destructive message that our nation and our law enforcement are oppressive or racist. They’ll throw out any word that comes to them. Actually, we must give far greater support to our law enforcement. It’s all about giving them additional support. These are great people. These are great, great people. These are brave people. They’re fighting to save people that they’d never met before in many cases. And they’re incredible. We must really be thankful that we have them and we have to help them do their jobs. We can’t be threatening them with their pensions are going to be taken away. Their jobs going to be taken away. Everything’s going to be taken away. They’re going to be living a bad life if they utter an incorrect word. You can’t do it. We have to have our law enforcement. We cherish our law enforcement. We wouldn’t be here without our law enforcement. Even me, I’m here today. I feel so safe. And you went through hell just a few days ago, but I feel so safe. I better be safe. I better be safe, but we’re all safe. And we’re safe because of law enforcement and we honor you. And I will say this, we have to condemn the dangerous anti-police rhetoric. It’s getting more and more. It’s very unfair. You have some bad apples. We all know that. And those will be taken care of through the system. And nobody’s going to be easy on them either. And you have people that choke. They’re under a tremendous… I said it yesterday. I said it last night, they’re under tremendous pressure. And they may be there for 15 years and have a spotless record and all of a sudden they’re faced with a decision. They have a quarter of a second, quarter of a second to make a decision. And if they make a wrong decision one way or the other, they’re either dead or they’re in big trouble. And people have to understand that they choke sometimes. And it’s a very tough situation, right? It’s a very tough. Then people call them bad and horrible and they made a bad decision, but if you think of it, when they have… And I know you practice this all the time, where you give people literally a quarter of a second to make a decision and a lot of them can’t make that right decision. It’s a very tough thing to do. The vast and overwhelming majority of police officers are honorable, courageous, and devoted public servants. They’re incredible yet many politicians ignore their sacrifice and ignore the African American and Hispanic American victims. We have people. There was love on the streets, I can tell you of Wisconsin when we were coming in. There was love in the streets. And so many African Americans, Hispanic Americans, I can see waving. Pastor, it was so beautiful to see. They want to have safety. They want to have safety. I’m not a huge believer in polls, obviously, but you look at polls where there’s 87% want to have great police. They want to have strong police. They want to have safety. They are the ones that are most affected by tragedies like you’ll see going around. When these allegations of police wrongdoing and when you see that they have made allegations, they must be fully and fairly investigated. And that’s what we’re doing. Bill Barr’s done a fantastic job in that respect. And we fully understand that because you do have problems the other way, but there are very few. The sad thing is you can do 10,000 great jobs as a police man or a police woman. You can do an incredible job for years, and then you have one bad apple, or something happens that’s bad, and that’s the nightly news for three weeks. That’s all they talk about. They don’t talk about the thousands and thousands of good jobs, the lives that you saved, they never talk about. So I’m committed to helping Kenosha rebuild, we all are. We will provide $1 million to the Kenosha law enforcement so that you have some extra money to go out and do what you have to do. It was a rough week, to put it mildly, and you’ve done it incredibly well. I’m also providing nearly $4 million to support the small businesses that I talked about today that got burned up, burned down, and we’re going to be providing over $42 million to support public safety statewide, including direct support for law enforcement, and funding for additional prosecutors to punish criminals and resources, to provide services to victims of crime, and that was Bill Barr who wanted that money put in. So that’s $42 million that’ll help with prosecutors and all of the other things that are so important to you. You need that, because when you grab them and then nothing happens, and they’re back on the street, that doesn’t work out too well. My administration is restoring public safety. We’re hiring more police, surging tough on crime federal prosecutors, increasing penalties for assaulting law enforcement, and for dismantling Antifa. They don’t want to mention the word Antifa. Nobody mentions that there’s a bad group of people. Very, very bad, very dangerous group of people, and we are doing a big number on Antifa. They’re bad. Earlier this year, we announced Operation Legend to surge federal law enforcement to high crime neighborhoods. It is a thing that has really worked out amazingly well, Bill, but it’s really understated, in a sense. We’ve already conducted more than 1,000 arrests in our first month in Chicago, we went to Chicago very recently. Obviously, that’s been a disaster, Chicago, total disaster, with again, radical left Democrat, and we just have to… It’s all Democrat, everything’s Democrat. All of these problems are Democrat cities. We don’t want to say it, but it is. The top 10 are Democrat. Then you go into the top 25, and take a look at that. It’s the same thing. We cut the number of murders in Chicago last month in half, still way too many, but Operation Legend was very, very, very successful. Now it’s just really getting going, but they cut it in half, and just at its very early stage. This is in sharp contrast to those who want to slash police funding, oppose using the National Guard, and want to hire radical judges and prosecutors who will release rioters, looters, and criminals. We have that in Portland, where the prosecutors don’t want to do anything. You can catch somebody doing the worst crime, and they don’t want to do anything, so we’re very, very upset about that. So we’re not going to cut police funding. If you look at what they want to do, they want to cut police funding. We want to increase police funding substantially. They want to end cash bail, which has been a killer for New York. If you look at what’s happening in New York, they allowed thousands of people out of jail in New York, and they’re walking around and they’re causing nothing but problems. Who would not know that? You don’t have to know anything about policing. I’m not a policeman, but I would know that if you let these people out, many of them are going to cause tremendous problems. So they want to end cash bail, incentivize prison closures, they want to close the prison so that you can’t hold anybody. Reimagine public safety, end immigration enforcement, resume catch and release at the border. As Chad will tell you, we’ve had tremendous success on the border. We’re up to over 300 miles of border wall, and we’re having the best year we’ve ever had in the border. People are coming in, but they only come in legally, or for the most part, they only come in legally. The wall will be finished very shortly, it’s had a tremendous impact. So, and the other thing, we want to appoint Supreme Court justices and judges, we’ll be up to almost 300 judges by the end of the term, and two Supreme Court justices. And so, we have a lot of things to do. We have a lot of great things to do, but it’s an honor to be in your neighborhood, it’s an honor to be in your great state, Wisconsin, and we’re here for you all the way. Some people thought it would be a good thing for me to come, a bad thing. I just wanted to come. I really came today to thank law enforcement, and to just really… What you’ve done has been incredible. It’s been really inspiring, because you see it happening all over and it just never seems to end, and it never seems to end because it’s almost as though they don’t want it to end, because you ended it really fast. And Congressman, I want to thank you for the job you did. You were the first call, and I want to thank you very much, Brian. Really great job. With that, I’d like to introduce Bill Barr, Attorney General of the United States to say a few words. Thank you. Thank you very much. You’re doing a great job. Thank you. Senator Ron Johnson, from your wonderful state, and he’s one of the great senators, I can tell you that in the US Senate. He’s one of the best. Ron, please. Thank you very much, Ron. Appreciate it. Congressman, please. Bryan Steil? Good. Thank you Brian. Great job. David Beth, sheriff, please? Thank you Sheriff. I’ll tell you, you’ve done a great job and just if they’re watching, Portland or Chicago or New York or any one of other cities that we’re talking about, Portland probably would be so easy. Maybe that will be the first one because I see it every night, it’s on the news, it’s burning. They’re always playing games and I don’t know, then he gets up and says, “We’re trying to work together,” the whole thing is … [inaudible 00:31:12] want to burn down his house last night, the mayor, but we’re ready, willing and able to send in a massive group of people that are really highly trained. You saw that –With your experience, right? We could solve that problem in less than an hour in Portland so I hope they call. Eventually they’ll call and at some point Bill, we’ll just have to do it ourselves. We’re going to have to do something that’s … I think the people will be extremely happy with. Maybe the mayor won’t and maybe the governor won’t but I don’t know if they know what they’re doing. I just … So sad to watch it happen, but here you acted and acted appropriately. Please Daniel, go ahead. That's right. Thank you Daniel. Great job you did, thank you, and you two worked together beautifully. It’s truly good. Really good job. Please. Really nice. Thank you. Pastors, would you like to say a prayer. I’d love to have that because you are so highly thought of in the area so please, James, share. Please. Thank you very much. Sharon, would you like to say something? That's really put. Yes James? So you know what I think? I think you're an incredible couple, I really do. And thank you very much for being here. Really great, beautiful. Do you have any questions, please? Yeah. No, it’s not, it’s just that we’re tired of watching every night with Portland. They’re on night 104 now, and we’re tired of watching it because it could be solved in an hour. And we’re tired of watching a mayor that has no clue what’s going on. And people are calling our office, and people are calling Washington that live in Portland and live in the state. And they’re saying, “Please send help.” And the governor… We used to call the governor often and they say, “No, we don’t need your help.” But I say, “Your community is burning down.” They don’t need our help. Now, I don’t know if that’s political, I don’t know what is going on, certainly not common sense, but we could solve it just like here. We all worked together, we came in, the federal government, the state government, the city government, everybody worked together, the senator, the congressman, it was a beautiful thing, it just came… It just worked. And it was done almost instantly, people were amazed. And as you probably will have to report, maybe people are surprised, there’s been zero problem in terms of your safety, our safety, I feel so safe. Four or five days ago, James, we couldn’t have done this, the law enforcement has been so great. And we could do this in Portland so quickly, so easily, it would be incredible. We would have done it in Seattle. We were all set to go into Seattle as you know, the following day, and they heard that and they sent the police, and the police did a good job, but they… The people gave up, they were exhausted, they were there for a long time and they gave up, they were exhausted. So, we’re there. I mean, we’d love to help Oregon, we’d love to help, really love to help, Portland. Because we could solve that problem so easily. We have the people, they’re ready they could be there in less than an hour, and it would all end. And they got a glimpse of that in this great state, they got a really good glimpse of it, it happened very quickly. And now… I mean, I see it, they’re already rebuilding, you’re already rebuilding your stores, you’ll be rebuilding your store soon, your camera shop. So, we don’t want to do that, but at some point we’re going to have to do it, okay? Well, I feel terribly for anybody that goes through that, that’s why I was so honored to meet the pastors. As you know, it’s under investigation, it’s a big thing happening right now, I guess it’s under local investigation, I know, [Barr 00:03:19], you’re also participating, but it’s under your local investigation group unit. And I hope they come up with the right answer, it’s a complicated subject to be honest with you, but I feel terribly for anybody that has to go through. And I didn’t get to speak to the mother, I hear she’s a fine woman, I’ve heard that from the pastor, a really fine woman. But, you can see when I spoke to the pastors, I see exactly what it is and they understand where I am. And if we can help, we’re going to help. But, it is a question, it’s under investigation. A lot of things happened with that and other things, frankly, that we’re looking at very, very closely. Okay? A body cam? Well, that’s very interesting. Let me ask, Barr, to answer that question. Go ahead, Barr. It’s a very tough… It’s a very… The whole thing with a body cam, you read it and you read two sides of the story, how do you feel about it, Daniel? You think they're good? But you overall...How about you? Okay. So, you'll be having them? Okay, good. They like them. You're going to have to speak up, please. No, I don’t believe that. I think the police do an incredible job. And I think you do have some bad apples, I think you’d agree every once in a while you’ll see something. And you do have the other situation too, where they’re under this tremendous pressure and they don’t handle it well, they call it choking, and it happens. And no, but I don’t believe that at all. I think there… I’ve met so many police, I have the endorsement of so many, maybe everybody, and frankly, I think they’re incredible people, they want to do the right thing. It’s a tough job, it’s a dangerous job. But I have to say this to the police, the people of our country love you. You don’t hear that, you don’t hear it from them, but the people of our country love you and they respect you, and they… And you know it, you feel it in your heart or you wouldn’t be doing it, but there’s a great love. And when they see what goes on… And when they see a case like this where it solves so quickly, they respect the police a lot, really a lot. So, you should hear it at least. Well, you just keep getting back to the opposite subject. We should talk about the kind of violence that we’ve seen in Portland and here and other places, it’s tremendous violence. You always get to the other side, well, what do you think about this or that? The fact is that we’ve seen tremendous violence and we will put it out very, very quickly if given the chance, and that’s what this is all about. I keep hearing about peaceful protests, I hear it about everything, and then I come into an area like this and I see the town is burned down. I mean, you look at Minneapolis, they should have acted much quicker, when we got the National Guard and it took literally half an hour. You saw the scene, they formed, they walked, it was over, and they haven’t had a problem of any consequence since. Their police weren’t allowed to do the job that they could do, they have a very good police department, but they weren’t allowed. Now they want to break it up, they want to end it, they don’t want to have a police department. They want to not only defund, they want to get rid of it, it’s ridiculous. So, I just say this, that the kind of violence that I saw… You may have protestors, but you have some really bad people too, you have anarchists, and you have the looters, and you have the riders, you have all types, you have agitators, and that’s what you should be focusing on with your question. I keep hearing about peaceful protest, it’s become… Really, I think it’s hurt the media very badly because you’ll have somebody standing on one of the networks, I won’t say which one, but there are more than one, many of them saying how it’s a peaceful protest and over the shoulder you see the whole place is burning down, it’s become a pretty common site. So, I don’t view the peaceful protest. I think peaceful protesting is fantastic, I think it’s great. But, by and large, this is not peaceful protest when you walk into an area and you see buildings that have burned down. And fortunately, here we stopped it early and so the damage is relatively minimal. But when you look at some of these areas that they just don’t ask for the help, they refuse to allow us to go in and help them, and by the time you get there the place is disintegrated. And then they say it was a peaceful protest, it’s not a peaceful protest and you shouldn’t call it a peaceful protest. One more, please. Say it again. You're going to have to speak up, sir. Well, I think people are calling for structural change and then you could take the people of Kenosha that aren’t here and that you won’t see and that aren’t protesting, but they want change also, they want to see law and order, that’s the change they want. They want the police to be police, they want the police to do what they do better than anybody else in the world, and that’s what they want too. You don’t see them marching and you don’t see them on the streets, but what they want is they want great police force, they want people that are going to keep them safe, where their houses aren’t broken into, where they’re not raped and murdered, that’s what they want. And they’re protesters too, but they don’t walk down the street, up and down the street. So, just the way it is. So I want to thank you all and I’ll see you back at the plane. Thank you very much. Great job, fantastic job. Thank you everybody. Thank you very much, appreciate everything.
















