Well, thank you very much. And hello, CPAC. Do you miss me yet? Do you miss me yet? A lot of things going on. There’s so many wonderful friends, conservatives and fellow citizens in this room and all across our country. I stand before you today to declare that the incredible journey we’ve begun together, we went through a journey like nobody else. There’s never been a journey like it. There’s never been a journey so successful. We began it together four years ago, and it is far from being over. We’ve just started. Our movement of proud, hardworking, and you know what? This is the hardest working people, hard working American Patriots is just getting started. And in the end we will win. We will win. We’ve been doing a lot of winning as we gather this week, we’re in the middle of a historic struggle for America’s future, America’s culture, and America’s institutions, borders, and most cherished principles. Our security, our prosperity, and our very identity as Americans is at stake, like perhaps at no other time. So no matter how much the Washington establishment and the powerful, special interests may want to silence us, let there be no doubt. We will be victorious. And America will be stronger and greater than ever before. I want to thank my great friends, Matt and Mercedes Schlep. Matt, thank you. Thank you. Mercedes, thank you very much. And the American Conservative Union for hosting this extraordinary event. They’re talking about it all over the world, Matt. I know you don’t like that, but that’s okay, all over the world. I also want to pay my love and respect to the great Rush Limbaugh who is watching closely and smiling down on us. He’s watching and he’s loving it and he loves Catherine. Catherine, thank you for being here, so great. Thank you Catherine. He loved you, Catherine. I will tell you that. Fantastic. Thank you Catherine very much. To each and every one of you here at CPAC, I am more grateful to you than you will ever know. We’re gathered this afternoon to talk about the future of our movement, the future of our party, and the future of our beloved country. For the next four years, the brave Republicans in this room will be at the heart of the effort to oppose the radical Democrats, the fake news media, and their toxic cancel culture. Something new to our ears, cancel culture. And I want you to know that I’m going to continue to fight right by your side. We will do what we’ve done right from the beginning, which is to win. We’re not starting new parties. They kept saying, he’s going to start a brand new party. We have the Republican party. It’s going to unite and be stronger than ever before. I am not starting a new party. That was fake news, fake news. No. Wouldn’t that be brilliant? Let’s start a new party and let’s divide our vote so that you can never win. No, we’re not interested in that. No we have tremendous, Mr. McLaughlin just gave me numbers that nobody’s ever heard of before, more popular than anybody. That’s all of us. It’s all of us. Those are great numbers. And I want to thank you very much. Those are incredible numbers. I came here and he was giving me 95%, 97%, 92%. I said, they’re great. And I want to thank everybody in this room and everybody all throughout the country, throughout the world, if you want to really know that. Thank you though. Thank you. We will be united and strong like never before. We will save and strengthen America. And we will fight the onslaught of radicalism, socialism, and indeed it all leads to communism once and for all. That’s what it leads to. You’ll be hearing more and more about that as we go along. But that’s what it leads to. You know that. We all knew that the Biden administration was going to be bad. But none of us even imagined just how bad they would be and how far left they would go. He never talked about this. We would have those wonderful debates. He would never talk about this. We didn’t know what the hell he was talking about actually. His campaign was all lies. Talked about energy, I thought I said, “This guy actually, he’s okay with energy.” He wasn’t okay with energy. He wants to put you all out of business. He’s not okay with energy. He wants windmills, the windmills. The windmills that don’t work when you need them. Joe Biden has had the most disastrous first month of any president in modern history. That’s true. Already the Biden administration has proven that they are anti jobs, anti-family, anti borders, anti energy, anti-women, and anti science. In just one short month, we have gone from America first to America last. You think about it, right? America last. There’s no better example than the new and horrible crisis on our Southern border. We did such a good job. It was all worked. Nobody’s ever seen anything that we did. And now he wants it all to go to hell. When I left office just six weeks ago, we had created the most secure border in us history. We had built almost 500 miles of a great border wall that helped us with these numbers because once it’s up, they used to say, “A wall doesn’t work.” Well, you know what I’ve always said, walls and wheels. Those are two things that will never change. The wall has been amazing. It’s been incredible and little sections of it to complete, They don’t want to complete it. They don’t want to complete little sections in certain little areas. They don’t want to complete. But it’s had an impact that nobody would have even believed. It’s amazing considering that the Democrats’ number one priority was to make sure that the wall would never, ever get built, would never, ever happen, would never get financed. We got it financed. We ended catch and release, ended asylum fraud, and brought illegal crossings to historic lows. When illegal aliens trespass across our borders, they were properly caught, detained and sent back home. And these were some rough customers. I want to tell you some rough customers were entering our country. It took them the new administration only a few weeks to turn this unprecedented accomplishment into self-inflicted humanitarian and national security disaster by recklessly eliminating our border, security measures, controls, all of the things that we put into place. Joe Biden has triggered a massive flood of illegal immigration into our country, the likes of which we have never seen before. They’re coming up by the tens of thousands. They’re all coming to take advantage of the things that he said that’s luring everybody to come to America. And we’re one country. We can’t afford the problems of the world, as much as we’d love to. We’d love to help. But we can’t do that. So they’re all coming because of promises and foolish words. Perhaps worst of all, Joe Biden’s decision to cancel border security has single-handedly launched a youth migrant crisis that is enriching child smugglers, vicious criminal cartels, and some of the most evil people on the planet. You see it every day, just turn on the news. You’ll see it every day. Under my administration, we stopped the child smugglers. We dismantle the criminal cartels. We greatly limited drug and human trafficking to a level that nobody actually thought was possible. And the wall helped us a lot. And we protected vulnerable people from the ravages of dangerous predators. And that’s what they are dangerous, dangerous predators. But the Biden administration has put the vial coyotes back in business and it has done so in a very, very big way. Under the new administration, catch and release has been restored. Can you imagine? We work so hard, catch, you know where that is? You catch them, you take their name, they may be killers. They may be rapists. They may be drug smugglers. You take their name and you release them into our country. We did the opposite. We not only didn’t release them, we had them brought back to their country. Illegal immigrants are now being apprehended and released along the entire Southern border, just the opposite of what it was two months ago. They weren’t coming because they couldn’t get in. Once they think they can get in, they’re coming. And they are coming at levels that you haven’t even seen yet, by the hundreds of thousands, by the millions they’ll be coming. The Biden administration is now actively expediting the admission of illegal migrants, enabling them to lodge frivolous asylum claims and admitting them by the thousands and thousands and thousands a day, crowded together in unsanitary conditions, despite the ongoing economic and public health crisis, COVID-19, or as I call it, the China virus. There’s no masks. There’s no double mask. That was a new one that came out two weeks ago. First Fauci said, “You don’t need masks, no masks, no good. No, no.” Then all of a sudden, you want them; and now he wants double masks. No social distancing, no nothing, no nothing. And together, and it’s sad actually. And it’s sad for them. And it sad for our country, what the Biden administration is doing to push young migrants into the hands of human traffickers and coyotes is dangerous, immoral, and indefensible, hard to believe it’s happening. Biden has failed in his number one duty as chief executive enforcing America’s laws. This alone should be reason enough for Democrats to suffer withering losses in the midterms and to lose the White House decisively four years from now. Actually, as you know, they just lost the White House. But it’s one of those things. But who knows, who knows? I may even decide to beat them for a third time. Okay? For a third time. True. Joe Biden defunded the border wall and stopped all future construction, even on small open sections that just needed to be finished up routine little work, it’s already been bought. Wait until the contractors get to them. And they say, “No, it costs us much more money not to finish this small section than if we finished it.” That’s going to be nice. Wait until you see those bills start pouring in. He revoked the executive order cracking down on deadly sanctuary cities. He has effectively ordered a shutdown of ICE, halting virtually all deportations, everyone, murderers, everybody, no more. Let’s not deport people and restricting our law enforcement professionals. And they are great professionals. You have many of them represented here today, from conducting almost any immigration enforcement of any kind. The Biden policy of releasing criminals into the US interior is making America into a sanctuary nation where criminals, illegal immigrants, including gang members and sex offenders are set free into American communities. They have no idea who’s coming up. And remember with the caravans, these countries, not only the three of them, but many, many countries all over the world. They’re not giving us their best and their finest, because they’re intelligent. They’re not giving us their best and their finest. Remember I said that. I said that a long time ago, when I made the first remarks, when I came down the escalator with our great future first lady who says, hello, who loves you as much as I love you. But I said that a long time ago. And we turned out to be 100% correct. Biden’s radical immigration policies aren’t just illegal. They’re immoral. They’re heartless. And they are a betrayal of our nation’s core values. It’s a terrible thing that’s happening. The Republican party must hold Joe Biden and the Democrats accountable. They ripped up the diplomatic agreements we negotiated with Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador to shut down illegal immigration. They got a fortune, they got paid $500 million a year. When I came into office, those countries were refusing to take back illegal alien gang members, including MS 13, the most vicious probably of them all. No matter where you go in the world, MS 13, they do things that even the worst don’t think about. So I asked how much do we pay these countries? How much do we pay them? Sir, we pay them approximately $ 500 million a year. It’s a lot of money. I mean, it’s peanuts compared to the way other countries rip us off, but that’s a lot of money. I said, “Okay, we aren’t going to pay them anymore because they wouldn’t take back the criminals.” And this was true with the Obama administration. It was true for many, many years. So we’d catch a murderer. We’d want to bring them back to Guatemala, or Honduras, or El Salvador. They wouldn’t take them back. “No, we don’t want them.” We’d fly them in. They wouldn’t let the plane land. We’d bus them in. They wouldn’t let the buses get anywhere near the border. And I said, “We’re not going to pay them anymore.” So after I said that, and I stopped payment, like a term that we use in the world of business, let’s stop payment. So we stopped payment. They were delinquent. We stopped payment and they very quickly came to the table and we made a deal, very quick deal. We still kept the money. We still didn’t pay because… Or we made a deal. And when illegal aliens came across our border, they were rapidly deported and lovingly accepted by those countries from where they came. And it worked out great. So now they accept the people and that we ultimately got along very well with those countries, those three countries and many countries throughout the world, because they respected us again. They didn’t respect us. They couldn’t believe what they were getting away with. But now, Joe Biden has wrecked this great deal, wrecked it. And they’re already doing what they were doing before and they’re taking the money. And that’s just a small portion of what’s going on. To top it all off, the Biden people are pushing a bill that would grant mass amnesty for millions of illegal aliens while massively expanding chain migration. That’s where you come in and everybody comes in, your grandmother, your father, your mother, your brother, your cousins. They come in so easily. So, so crazy. So crazy. It even requires that the US government provide a legal border crosses with taxable funded lawyers, lawyers, everybody need a good lawyer? You can’t have one. They get the lawyers, they get lawyers. They’re probably very good too. The Democrat immigration bill is a globalist corp. You take a look at the corporatist, big tech attack on hardworking citizens of every race, religion, color, and creed. And Republicans must ensure that it never is allowed to become federal law, which is what they want to do. We must stand tall in the party. We have to do this. We have to stand tall as the party for law abiding Americans and others, when they’re in our country. Border security is just one of the many issues on which the new administration has already betrayed the American people. He didn’t talk about this stuff. I debated him. He wasn’t talking about this. What he signed with those executive orders, they weren’t things that were discussed. We didn’t know all about him and the press because they’re fake news. They’re the fakest fakers there are.


























