Thank you all very much for being at the White House; very special house, very special place. I’m grateful to be joined by citizens whose lives have been saved by law enforcement heroes. And that’s what they are the heroes. And they’re being very unfairly treated over the last long period of time, but over the last few years. It’s terrible what’s happening. We’re also joined by two amazing officers, South Carolina Deputy Sheriff William Kimbro. Where’s William? William. William. What happened to William? Okay. That’s a good excuse. That’s good. And Palm Beach County, Deputy Sheriff Corey Reese. Hi Corey, good. In recent weeks, our country’s police officers have been really under siege. I want to thank … First of all, I do want to thank Vice President Pence for all the work he’s done on this. And in particular Attorney General Bill Barr, because the job he’s done has been amazing. It’s been 24 hours a day, I guess I could say 28 hours a day, right? It never ends, but it’s been a great job that you both done. We appreciate it, Mike. We appreciate it very much. But our officers have been under vicious assault and hundreds of police have been injured and several murdered. You’ve been reading about it, just like I’ve been seeing it. Reckless politicians have defamed our law enforcement heroes as the enemy. They call them the enemy. They actually go and say that they’re enemy and even call them an invading army. These radical politicians want to defund and abolish the police from our nation. At first, when I first heard it, I said, “Well, that’s just something that they’re saying.” But they actually are trying to do it. You look at what’s going on in Minneapolis. You look at what’s going on in many Democrat run areas, but they want to defund and they want to abolish. Far-left mayors are escalating the anti-cop crusade and violent crime is spiraling in their cities. It’s all far left cities where they have no understanding of what has to be done. They don’t have a clue. I will say that we put on a very powerful rule in law that you get 10 years, you’re knocked down a monument. If it’s a federal monument, you go to jail for 10 years. If it’s anything else, we tell them we work with the states to help them. But if you do anything where it’s a federal monument and there are a lot of them up there and nobody’s been attacked, nothing’s been attacked since we did, 10 years in jail, monument or statue. In one recent week in New York City, this is hard to believe, shootings were up 358%. And yet they spend all their time, they want to do Black Lives Matter signs outside of Trump Tower. That ought to spend their time doing something else, because I’ll tell you what, 358% increase in shootings in New York. Last month, over 300 people were shot. NYPD retirements have quadrupled and they’re going up even further. And New York City is out of control. Unfortunately, my place, I love it, but it’s out of control. It was doing so well. Rudy Giuliani, whether you like Rudy or not, he did a great job. He was the greatest mayor in the history of New York. Murders in Atlanta up 133% compared to the same period last year. And one of the victims was an eight year old girl. Then we’ve had younger than that in Chicago last weekend. In the last two weeks, 105 Americans were shot in Philadelphia. In Minneapolis, the city voted to disband the police department and cut it way down, but disband it ultimately. The radical politicians are waging war on innocent Americans. That’s what you’re doing when you play with the police. My administration is pro-safety, pro-police and anti-crime. And I will say, I just see a new number came in from Chicago, this weekend was a scourge. This weekend was, I guess, 20 people killed in many, many shootings. Many, many shootings, far worse than the last week. Things are happening that nobody’s ever seen happening happen. In cities that are liberally run, I call them radical lib, and yet they’ll go and march on areas and rip everything down in front of them. If that’s what you want for a country, you probably have to vote for sleepy Joe Biden, because he doesn’t know what’s happening, but you’re not going to have it with me. We’ve been very strong on law enforcement. We’ll be doing things that you’ll be, I think very impressed with. Numbers are going to be coming down even if we have to go in and take over cities because we can’t let that happen. When you have 20 people killed, 22 people killed in one weekend in Chicago. When you have 88 shootings, it’s not even conceivable. That’s worse than Afghanistan. I hate to say it. That’s worse than any war zone that we’re in, by a lot. It makes them look like tame places by comparison so we’re not going to let it go on. Supposed to wait for them to call, but they don’t call. We’ve asked Chicago, ” Would you like us to go in and help?” And they don’t want to say anything. We’ve called many of the cities. “Would you like us to go and help?” We’ve done a great job in Portland. Portland was totally out of control and they went in and I guess we have many people right now in jail and we very much quelled it. And if it starts again, well quell it again, very easily. It’s not hard to do if you know what you’re doing. I just want to thank everybody for being here. I’ll maybe ask Vice President Pence to say a couple of words, and then I’d like Bill Barr to say something and we’ll go around the room. Okay? Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, Mike. Bill? Thank you, Bill. I appreciate it. Maybe what we’ll do is we’ll go around the room and maybe you could introduce yourself and explain exactly what’s going on. You have an incredible story, please. Saved her. Wow. You don’t hear those stories. That’s why I think it’s important to have a meeting like this. A little different. And it’s the meeting that we should have about a hundred times out of almost a hundred. This is the one because the police do such a job. And there’s an example. That’s fantastic. That’s fantastic. And did you know the gentleman on your left? Come on. Let’s go. Let’s tell that story please. Do you know? Do you want to go ahead? Please. Yes. Go ahead. Great job. Well, that’s what I meant when I kiddingly said … That’s what I meant when I kiddingly said, “Do you know the gentlemen to your left,” because you really know him. That’s what I meant and great job you’ve done. Thank you very much on behalf of all of us. And Camira, congratulations. Thank you for being here. Thank you. Thank you both. Please, go ahead. That’s great. So again, the police did a great job and the group did a great job and so Spencer has no sense of danger, so you would say basically he’s very brave, okay? View it that way. Thank you very much for being here. We appreciate it. Thank you. Brooke, please. Well thank you very much Brooke. What’s more astonishing to me is that we’ll call, Bill will call, Vice President will call, I’ll call. You’ll call leaders of these cities, Democrat leaders, and we don’t care if they’re Democrat or not, they happen to be in every case, but we’ll call them and we’ll say, “Do you need help?” They’ll say, “No.” I said, “But you just had 40 people shot and many people killed this weekend.” They’ll say, “No, we’re okay.” I’ll say, “What’s that all about?” We’re tired of those answers. We’re tired of those answers, so thank you. To me that’s astonishing. Thank you very much Brooke. Please. How are you doing now then? So that’s a lot of times that you had difficulty. How are you doing? Good. Fun. Great. That’s a fantastic job. Thank you very much. That’s an equally incredible statement, you understand what you’re doing now, so that’s great. Six years, almost six years. That’s fantastic. Good luck. We’ll see you … In let’s say celebrate in 10, okay, we’ll see you in 10. So we’ll see you in another four years, all right? That’s fantastic news. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Please. Thank you. Well that’s great. Thank you very much. It’s an incredible story. So how seriously … How long did it take to recover? How bad was it? Okay. That's a great job. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Thank you for being here. Please. Good. Well that’s a great story. I thought you were going to tell me that they wanted to arrest you for giving them a couple of bucks and they deserve it very much but you know I’ve heard the other end of those stories also. You’re not allowed to do anything and you’re right about it. What the police have been going through over the last number of years in all fairness, it’s been starting but it’s never been like this, has it? It’s never been like this. It’s crazy. It’s crazy and they’ll find out it will go the opposite direction unfortunately at some point. It will go absolutely opposite when they see … You’re going to have some defunding and abolishing and you’ll see numbers like nobody would ever believe and they’re going to say, “Let’s get our police back as soon as we can.” That’s great what you just … That’s a fantastic thing. That's a lot. That's a lot. Good job. Thank you very much. That's great. Great stories. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Yeah. That's great. Thank you very much. Two in the morning. Why did he … That’s a strange time. So you found him to be okay? Even though he came at two in the morning? Yeah, now they were there. That's great. Good. Thank you very much. Thank you. Really nice. Please. Thank you. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Beautiful. Please. Thank you very much. Great story. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. You're doing a great job too. Please. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Thank you. It’s called natural instinct more than anything else. Thank you very much. Great job. Appreciate it. Well, you’ve said it all. That’s a case that’s still going now? It’s still going? I see. Well, good luck with it. Good luck. Beautiful guy too. Beautiful. That’s just a few stories of the thousands and thousands of stories that we could tell. We’ll probably be doing this again. But the police, they do a great job. They do a fantastic job and they don’t get the kind of … I will say this. The people of this country appreciate the police. They appreciate all they’ve done. You don’t see that if you watch the news. For the most part, you don’t see things like this, but they’ve done a fantastic job. Everybody here is a witness to that and we see it a lot. The Attorney General sees it every day, but we see it a lot. I just want to thank the various police departments, law enforcement. They’ve done an incredible job in this country where they’re allowed to do their work, they really do a job. Thank you all very much for being here. Good luck with your case. Really, terrific job everybody. Terrific job. Thank you. Would anybody from the media like to ask anybody a question, up here? Steve, go ahead please. Well, I have a very good relationship with Dr. Fauci. I’ve had for a long time, right from the beginning. I find him to be a very nice person. I don’t always agree with him. I closed the border, as you know, to China. I closed. I did the ban on China, heavily infected and we saved tens of thousands of lives and Dr. Fauci will admit that it was a good decision. It was very early. That was in January, long before it was thought of as the right thing to do. I also closed the borders to Europe when Italy and a couple of other countries over there, France, certainly Spain, they were having a lot of problems. I closed the borders very early, shortly after I did with China. We saved a lot of lives. We’ve made a lot of good decisions. But no, I get along with him very well. I like him personally. Please. I can't hear you. Well, he’s got a case going on right now. I don’t know this for a fact, but I think he’s doing very well with respect to his case. I hope that he’s going to be able to win it and I don’t have a decision to make until I find out what’s going to happen. But I think he was persecuted. He didn’t lie. It turned out he didn’t lie. The FBI said he didn’t lie. I think he was persecuted. And nobody understands what’s going on with the judge, the Justice Department, which is so capable. They decided to take a view on it and they decided that he should be… they were going to drop the case. So he’s right now, meaning his lawyers and him, are embroiled in hopefully the final stages of what should have never happened. They treated him very unfairly, as they have many people on this side. Yeah, please. That's right. You know that we have one of the lowest mortality rates anywhere. If you know Biden and Obama stopped their testing, they just stopped it. You probably know that. I’m sure you don’t want to report it, but they stopped testing right in the middle. They just went, “No more testing,” and on a much lesser problem than the problem that we have, obviously, with respect to… this is the worst thing that’s happened since probably 1917. This is very bad. All over the world, there’s 188 countries right now. But no, we test more than anybody by far. And when you test, you create cases. So we’ve created cases. I can tell you some countries they test when somebody walks into a hospital sick or walks into maybe a doctor’s office, but usually a hospital, that’s the testing they do, so they don’t have cases, whereas we do. We have all of these cases, so it’s a double edged sword. At the same time, we have the lowest mortality or just about the lowest mortality in the world. We’re doing a great job. We’re doing very well with vaccines and we’re doing very, very well with therapeutics. And I think we’re going to have some very good information coming out soon. But we have the best and certainly the biggest, by far the biggest testing program anywhere in the world. If you tested China or Russia or any of the larger countries, if you tested India, as an example, the way we test you’d see numbers that would be very surprising. Brazil too. Brazil is going through a big problem, but they don’t do testing like we do. We do the testing and by doing the testing, we have tremendous numbers of cases. If we didn’t do this… as an example, we’ve done 45 million tests. If we did half that number, you’d have half the cases probably around that number. If we did another half of that, you’d have half the numbers. Everyone would be saying, “Oh, we’re doing so well on cases.” But when I see it reported in the night, you can check me out of this. I mean, they always talk about… they’re always talking about cases, the number of cases. Well, it is a big factor that we do. We have a lot of cases because we have a lot of testing, far more than any other country in the world. And it’s also the best testing. Yeah. Please. Well, I think what I’m going to do is allow that to be answered by our Attorney General. Do you mind, Bill? Well, I’ve looked at it very strongly. And in this particular case, I’m dealing with Bill and all of the people at Justice. And it’s always tough. You’re talking about the death penalty, but when you talk about people that did what this particular person did, that’s tough also. We’re going to see what happens. Right now they have a stay, I believe, right? They have a stay and we’ll let the courts determine the final outcome and that’s what’s going to happen. Okay. Well, if you look back on it, this was an investigation that should have never taken place. You have guys like Comey, you have McCabe, you have Strzok, you have his lover, Lisa Page, you have all of these people running around, you have Brennan and Clapper who lied to Congress, you have many, many people, you have people that change documents going into the FISA Courts, and it’s a terrible thing. And this is an investigation that they said should have ended before it started. It shouldn’t have started, and if it did, it should have ended immediately because they found, as you know, as well as I do, they found nothing initially, but it went on for two years or longer. And no, I did. I’m getting rave reviews for what I did for Roger Stone. And he frankly, is going to go and now appeal his case. He had a jury forewoman who hated Roger Stone and who hated probably me, but she went on a false pretense and he wasn’t given a fair trial. He wasn’t. It’s not a fair trial. He wasn’t given another trial. He should have been given another trial. I won’t say more. I won’t talk about the judge. I’m not going to. Why would I ever talk about a judge? But this was a judge that gave, I believe solitary confinement to Paul Manafort. Al Capone didn’t have solitary confinement. These are things that happened. And if you look at President Bush, President Clinton, President Obama, take a look at what they did. Frankly, it’s very unfair Roger Stone was treated very unfairly in my opinion. And so were many others this side. In the meantime, you have the other ones who are admitted lying before… they admitted they lied before Congress, they leaked classified information, which is something you just can’t do. And what are they doing? We’ll see what happens, but no, we’re we’re getting rave reviews for what I did. Okay. Well, we’re going to see it built up a little bit, but we’re going to do something that will be great. We think we’re doing very well. We had some poll numbers a little while ago that a great. It’s the same story. It’s a suppression polls that we had in 2016, phony polls. Fake news, phony polls, same thing. And we’re doing very well. We’re doing well in Georgia. We’re doing well in Texas. I read where I was one point up in Texas. I’m not one point up in Texas. We’re many points up. I saved the oil industry. Two months ago, I saved the oil industry. There would have been… I created it. We became number one, we have millions of jobs and we saved it. Texas is not going to have to let go of millions and millions of people. Oklahoma, North Dakota, many states. We’re $40 a barrel. And yet you can buy gasoline for under $2. Nobody’s ever seen like this. We have the biggest energy in the world. When number one oil as you know, oil and gas by far. We’re now number one in the world. And we would have had millions of people out of work. I saved it. And then they say I’m leading by one point in Texas. They said it last time too. They said, Texas is too close to call. This was like three months before the election. And then I won Texas in a blow out. They called it the minute the polls closed. They said that about Utah. They said that about Georgia. They said the same thing, that Georgia is, “Oh, we can’t, it’s too close. They’ll never be able to determine. We’ll have to wait until election night.” On election night, two seconds after the poll closed, they called Georgia. It’s the same thing. And we have the same thing. They’re phony polls. They’re suppression polls. But to think that after saving the oil and gas business and millions and millions of jobs, I’m leading Texas by one point. I don’t think so. Go ahead. It’s intact. It’s intact, but I think what China has done to the world with what took place, the China plague, you call it the China virus, you can call it whatever you want to call it. It’s about 20 different names. What they did to the world should not be forgotten. But it’s intact. They’re buying. Whether they buy or not, that’s up to them. They’re buying. Yeah. The school should be opened. Schools should be opened. Kids want to go to school. You’re losing a lot of lives by keeping things closed. We did the right thing. We saved millions of lives. We saved millions of lives while we did the initial closure. Had we not done what we did, we would’ve had two to … Mike and I were talking about it before 2 to 3 million lives lost, but we did that. We’re at about 135,000 and we’ll be somewhat higher than that by the time it ends. And again, the vaccines are happening and the therapeutics are happening, but I’m not even talking about that. We’ll be at a somewhat high, but we would have lost 2 million, 3 million lives had we not done it. Now we understand it also. We understand there are certain vulnerabilities, young children. I was with, talking to Governor Murphy and they have thousands of lives, I won’t even say how many, just thousands of lives, hard to believe in New Jersey. And he said there was only one life that was 18 or younger, one person died. And that was a person, a young man that had some medical difficulty. When you think of that with thousands of lives and you have one person that was under 18, that’s something, that tells you for some reason, I guess, the immune system is much stronger with young people than it is for others. We have to watch the group that does have the difficulty, does have the problem. We all know what that is. We all know who they are, especially if they have a medical problem. If they have a medical problem, diabetes or heart or anything, it’s a big problem. But we’re being very careful, but we have to open the schools. Would you agree with that? Do you agree? Yeah. We have to open the schools. We have to get them open. And I think there’s a lot of politics going along. I think they think they’ll do better if they can keep the schools closed in the election. I don’t think it’s going to help them, frankly. But I think they feel that by keeping schools closed, that’s a bad thing for the country and therefore that’s a good thing for them. But they’re the ones who city’s burning. I mean, can you imagine if the country was run like Chicago and like New York and like some of these other Democrat super radical left cities are run. You wouldn’t have a country for very long and the economy would crash. We just set a brand new record today on NASDAQ again. This is now I think the 18th time since, and this has since… after the problems. We have a new stock market high for NASDAQ, and the other ones are getting very close. When I came here, the stock market was up almost 500 points today. The economy is rebuilding. Jobs are being produced at a record pace. We’ve never had a pace like this. And I will tell you if Biden got in, this economy would be destroyed. He was in office for 48 years, and what he did was not great. Almost every decision was a wrong decision. And now he’s going to come in and try and help us. We didn’t need any help. We built the greatest economy in history, greatest economy we’ve ever had, the greatest economy the world has ever seen. And then the plague came in from China and we started… we did the right thing. We had to close it down. Now we’re opening it up. He can’t do it. He doesn’t have the capability to do it. Thank you all very much. I appreciate it. Thank you. Good luck with everything. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
















