Thank you very much. Did you see the crowd outside? I don’t know if they report it. I don’t think they do. You know who they are, right? Fake news. No, I don’t know that they report it. That is an unbelievable, thousands and thousands of people lined up so far. It was very important for me to come to North Carolina because we wanted to be here, but your governor didn’t allow it because he’s in a shutdown mode along with a lot of other Democrat governors. And it’s too bad, but I want to thank Kirby and the incredible people I just met, farmers and wonderful business people and really, humanitarians, they’re incredible people. I’m thrilled to be at the Flavor First Growers and Packers facility here in the great state of North Carolina. Joe Biden was supposed to be in Wisconsin, but he never showed up. I showed up. In fact, we did a count, our vote we did here in North Carolina. We did it in Charlotte a little while ago. I was there, it was a great, exciting moment to actually. Today we’re here to celebrate the incredible work of the farmers and faith leaders and amazing volunteers who are caring for their community, through our highly successful farmers, to families food box program. I just looked at a couple of those boxes and I said, “I want to have something right now.” But they thought it would be inappropriate because I was coming up to speak. But beautiful looking stuff. We’re grateful to be joined by Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue, and somebody that you know, Ivanka Trump. And Ivanka has been a big supporter of this project and this whole program. And it’s made people that were looking for food happy and it’s made the farmers happy. With all of us, we’re just thrilled to be here. You have a representative named Ted Budd. Where’s Ted Budd? Where’s Ted? Ted, thank you very much. What a great warrior you’ve been, Ted Budd, Congressmen. Thank you Ted very much, I appreciate it. And where’s Madison, where is Madison? Is he here? If I had a face like that, I would have been president 20 years ago. If I looked like him, I would have been president 20 years ago, Kirby. Madison Cawthorn, and a real star. You’re going to be a star of the party. Thank you very much. What a great guy, great guy. He was in the oval office, I didn’t want my picture with him because he looks too good. Great. Proud of you too. And I hear you doing really well over there. Thank you very much, Madison. Also want to thank Mitch Gaither and Brian Rose, of Flavor First Growers, we appreciate you guys. Thank you. Thank you. And executive director of Baptists on Mission, Richard Brunson and many local leaders are here. Where’s Richard? Oh, Richard, thank you very much. Great job. That’s fantastic. Thank you Richard. When the China virus struck our nation, many farmers had no place to send their crops or livestock. At the same time, families across the country were in need of groceries, they wanted to eat well. And next year they’re going to be eating better than ever before, because we’re going to have a tremendous year. I’ll tell you, economically, you see the numbers coming in and you see even the employment numbers coming in. In the last quarter, more people hired, more jobs than any over 9 million jobs than at any quarter ever before, it’s a record. We’re going to have a great year, we’re going to have a great quarter, but we’re going to have a great year. That’s why we launched the Farmers to Families Food Box program. Through this program, the Department of Agriculture is purchasing food from farmers, then local distributors pack and deliver the boxes and families in need get it, and they get to eat very well. We’re tremendously grateful for the 185 employees here at this facility who have packed roughly 7,000 boxes a week. That’s not bad Kirby, right? 7,000 boxes a week is a lot of boxes. Thanks as well to the incredible volunteers at Baptist Sun Mission, who shipped boxes to over 200 pickup locations all across your great state. With your help in just three months, we’ve delivered over 1 billion pounds of food, providing more than 100 million meals to Americans most in need. And this is a program that just got started and they’re already a soon as I saw it, I saw one line that was hungry. And one line that had so much food, they had to dispose of it, the farmers. I said, “Let’s put them together.” And with Sonny and with all of the people that worked on it and Ivanka’s strong backing, we got it done in literally a week, right? We got it done. And I think might’ve even been less than a week. That’s not bad. Today, I’m proud to announce that we will provide an additional $1 billion to fund the Farmers to Families Food Box programs that’s worked out so well. It’s worked out so well. In our fight against the China virus, we’ve launched the greatest industrial mobilization. This is the greatest industrial mobilization, all of the things that we’ve done to, to take on this horrible, horrible scourge that’s come in. To take on this horrible, terrible plague, I call it sometimes. We didn’t deserve this, we didn’t deserve this. And they could have stopped it. And we had just signed an incredible trade deal with China. In fact, last week, Sonny was telling me the largest order of corn in the history of our country, twice largest order of soybeans in history. But I feel so differently because the ink wasn’t even dry on that trade deal when we got hit with the China virus, I feel very differently about it. In our fight against the virus, we’ve launched this mobilization. And it’s the biggest since World War Two. Biggest and most successful too. You’ll be hearing that on Thursday night, I’m going to be talking about it because what we’ve done is incredible. You would have had a situation, if you looked at the lives saved, if we didn’t close down, now reopened and we reopened. Problem is your governor doesn’t want to reopen. He wants to keep it shut down and you can’t do that, because there’s a lot of bad statistics on the other side, shut downs cause problems too, with suicide and depression and loss of jobs and loss of a lot of other things. So we have to get your state open. We have to get numerous states open that are run by Democrats, because I really believe on November 4th, they’re all going to be open. It’s going to be a miracle. We got to get Pennsylvania open. Now we have Pennsylvania, we have here, we have others. And well, Wisconsin is another one, right? All Democrats. They want to keep it close as long as possible, right up until the election, then they’re going to open it. But you know what? The numbers are so good anyway, that they are having a hard time. They’re having a little hard time with this whole situation. But yesterday, I announced that the FDA had issued an emergency use authorization for convalescent plasma. You probably saw that, which is proven to be an incredible reducer. It’s going to reduce mortality by at least 35%, could be much more than that. We’ll see the final numbers, but it could be even higher than that. And we did remdesivir and lots of other things, we’re going to be talking about it on Thursday nights. I hope you’re all going to be listening. Because the job that the FDA has done and the approval process has gone far faster than it would have ever gone under any other administration. I’m talking about the saving of years, the saving of years. Through operation Warp Speed, three vaccine candidates are in the final phase of clinical tests. Normally that would take two years to get there, maybe longer. And we expect to have a vaccine available before the end of the year, and maybe a lot sooner than that. To care for hard working Americans, we continue to deliver unprecedented financial support. We passed the largest relief package in history. Altogether, we’ve delivered over $3 trillion in economic assistance to the American people, and the American farmer has done very well. I never hear any complaints from the American farmer. I got $28 billion from China, I said, “You targeted our farmers in Iowa, in North Carolina, all over the country, Nebraska, you targeted our farmers. You can’t do that.” So I put big tariffs on goods coming in from China. And out of the many, many tens of billions of dollars that we took in, never happened to China before. They had the worst year they’ve had, last year before the plague, they had the worst year they’ve had in 67 years. So this never happened to them. I don’t want that to happen, I don’t want them to have a bad year, but nobody has ripped off our country more than them over the last 25 or 30 years. And we gave that money directly to the farmers, through Sonny, Department of Agriculture, we gave a total of $28 billion to farmers, and they’re not complaining, I’ll tell you, they’re not complaining. Nobody else, I can tell it to the farmers, I’ll tell it to the country, I’m very proud of it, nobody else, no other president would have done that. Even Sonny was surprised when I called him, I said, “Let’s do this.” Sonny said, “That’s never been done before,” but Sonny was okay with it, I will tell you. Thank you, darling, thank you very much. Through the paycheck protection program, we’ve saved 5 million small businesses and 50 million jobs. This includes nearly 130,000 small businesses and 1.2 million jobs right here in North Carolina. And you’re ready to open up. You got to tell the… And you’re ready to play football. You got to play football. You got to play football. We’ve delivered over $8 billion in economic impact payments directly to 5 million North Carolina families. And we provided a total of $19 billion to cover farmers’ losses due to the pandemic. And then we added another, we got it up to a total, the total was 28, and I guess we’re now up to 34 or close to 34. Nobody’s ever seen numbers like this. And it was really by putting tariffs on a place that treated us very, very badly. So it was 19 billion. It was 12 billion. It started off at 12, went to 19, went to 28. And I think it’s going to go probably up to about 34 billion. So our farmers will never be tormented again. We’ve slashed regulations to cut the death tax. Now the death tax is a big deal. So if you have a farm or a business like [Kirby 00:00:11:25], like your business, and you want to leave it to your beautiful family, which I just met, and they have to go out and get a big mortgage from a bank because they have big estate taxes, call it whatever you want, we call it a death tax. They don’t have to do that anymore, Kirby. That’s pretty good. Right? So you’ll be looking down and you’ll be saying, “They’re happy.” They won’t be losing the business or losing the farm, but we’ve slashed regulations, cut the death tax, the estate tax, got rid of it for the small farms and businesses. Provided direct assistance to farmers unfairly targeted by China and secured fair and reciprocal trade deals to boost American agricultural import and exports. You know, we have a very unfair situation going because some of our allies are much tougher than our enemies, if you want to know the truth, they put big tariffs on so you can’t get your product in. You can’t get it in. And I said, “That’s okay, you can put the tariffs in, but we’re going to put the same tariff on you.” And it’s amazing how quickly those tariffs come off, it’s really actually incredible to watch it. Already, the great American comeback is very much underway. So we’ve added the jobs in the United States. If you look at the stock market, it’s just about, in fact NASDAQ just set a new record, and it’s over a period of three weeks, it’s actually, I think, broken the record 14 or 15 times. And you’re going to see something with Dow, because you watch Dow, and you’re looking at the numbers, and we’re very close to breaking those records. When I left this morning, the stock market was up almost 300 points, we’ll see where it is. And that’s a leading indicator, that’s great stuff. That’s your 401ks, that’s your stocks. And the economy is quickly following wages are up nearly 5%. Retail spending is fully recovered and is at an all time high. Can you imagine that retail spending is now at a higher level than it was prior to the plague coming in? Can you believe that? I mean, who would think that? And home builder optimism is at a record high, and prices are going up, and homes are being built, and it’s an incredible thing that’s happening. And when we get rid of this virus, which will happen and it will happen sooner than people think, and that’s with the vaccines, but even without the vaccines, it’s happening. During this time of trial, we’ve seen once again that the strength of our nation lies in patriotic citizens like everyone here today, I’ve met so many of you, each time you deliver a food box to a family, you show them that in this country, no one is forgotten. Remember, I used to talk about the forgotten men and women of our country. And I still talk about them. You’ll be hearing about them on Thursday night, they are no longer forgotten. You’ve become a very, very important voice. Very important voice. They used to say, “Who are these people?” I said, “They’re the forgotten people. They work hard. They work so hard, and they’re the forgotten people.” Not any longer, they’re not. The Democrats are trying to find them, but they’re not being too good to the Democrats, I will say that. But together we’ll overcome the virus, and America will come back bigger, and better, and more united than ever before. We’ll be stronger. Or military is more powerful now than it ever was. We rebuilt entirely our military, $2.5 trillion. So I just want to thank you for the support. North Carolina, you’ve been incredible from, the first day I came to North Carolina. I was here many times before I did this political thing, but will tell you this was a great experience dealing with the people of North Carolina. And that’s why I felt I had an obligation to be here today, because we said we’re going to have our convention here. And it was because of your governor that we had to move things around, but we did already, we had a very important part of it in Charlotte. So I went there and I wanted to stop here and congratulate you on your success. And it’s a great honor. And I’ll introduce Sonny Perdue, Secretary of Agriculture. Thank you all very much. It’s a great honor. Thank you. Well, I want to also thank Mark Meadows and Deb for being incredible. You have somebody very capable going to be helping you out. But Mark has been a fantastic chief. We call them, chief of staff, we call him chief. But he’s done a great job and I appreciate it. And he loves your state. He loves your state, comes from your state, and he loves your state. Again, we will never take the word God out of our pledge of allegiance. As you saw, recently happened during the DNC caucus twice, at least twice. And that’ll never happen. And I just want to, again, thank all of the people of North Carolina very much. You’re very special people-who’ve had great. Thank you. And I will be seeing you very soon. November 3rd. I think it’s the most important election this country has ever had. November 3rd, get out and vote. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you.
















