Go ahead. Well, I want to thank you Rush, you’re a fantastic man, a friend of mine. But before I really even knew you as a friend, you were a supporter. And I said, “I know that guy, he’s got a big audience.” But I never even knew the importance of what you do and what you say, and now I do very well. And it keeps us all in the game. And we just got great polls out of, you probably heard, out of Arizona, we’re getting them out of Nevada. The real polls, not the fake polls. We’re getting them out of North Carolina, looking really good. I think Pennsylvania is looking good. Florida is looking great. It’s all a big phony deal they have going Rush, and we’re going to win this. I think it’s going to be a bigger win than we had four years ago. Well, I appreciate it. And when you suggested this, I immediately jumped on it because your audiences is the biggest. I mean, it’s just incredible. And we have some great friends in Sean Hannity, and so many others, and Mark, and so many people are so great to us. But we have so many people that are so untruthful. And the biggest thing, and the one thing I haven’t figured out is why. If we say we’re going to create a strong military and protect, we’re going to create a strong economy like we’ve never had an economy prior to the plague, and that we’re building it up again stronger than before. Watch, it’s going to be stronger than before. We’re almost at record stock market. Nobody can believe that. And we’re rounding the turn on the pandemic, and I’ll have something to say about that. Because I’m telling you, we have a cure. More than just a therapeutic. We have a cure. But so many things that we’ve done, and no matter what you do, they try and find fault. And not only fault, vicious, they’re vicious people. And you say, why wouldn’t they want to have good education, a good military, a strong economy, safety, security? Why would they want to live like they live in Portland, and where they just allow these agitators and anarchists to run the streets? Why would they want that? That’s the only thing I haven’t figured out. Why would they? And why would these big companies like Comcast, I call it Concast. It’s Comcast, but I call it Concast because it’s a con job. That’s NBC mostly. But if you look at that or CNN, which is so pathetic, why would they do that? Why would they want to have a country that’s in turmoil? Because they create it. The fake news is the worst thing we have going. The lame stream, I call it the lame stream media. But you’d think that they’d want to see great education, great country, great security, strong military. It’s a crazy thing, Rush. It’s the one thing I’ve never quite figured it out, you know? And they become less wealthy. To a large extent, they become less wealthy. And they’re willing to give up their wealth in order to see the country go to hell. Some day when you figure that out, you’re going to let me know. Okay, I’ll tell you, it’s such a great question. And I’d do it again, even though it’s far worse. I never thought I’d be involved with a Russia hoax or a Ukraine hoax, or be impeached because I made a phone call congratulating somebody that I never met to or spoke to on becoming the President of Ukraine. And all of a sudden you get impeached. And it was a perfect phone call. A letter that we actually… Fortunately, we had it transcribed, because they made up the phone call. They said it was totally different. Fortunately, or maybe I wouldn’t be talking to you right now in this capacity at least, fortunately we had it transcribed. It was transcribed, the exact call. If we didn’t, you know what Schiff said, he said it before Congress, he repeated my call. It had no bearing on what I said. It was a perfect phone call, and I got impeached over it. I never knew it would be so unpleasant. But nobody has done more in the last three and a half years as president, in the first three and a half years that I have. Nobody. I mean, if you look at rebuilding the military and the economy, and the best employment numbers we’ve ever had. And we’ve cut regulations to a point that’s so incredible nobody’s ever seen. If you look at the Veterans Choice and the VA Accountability, we had people in the VA that would beat up our veterans, and beat them up badly. You know, they’re infirm, they’re not well, they’re not feeling well. And then you had these animals in there that would beat them up, we couldn’t do anything about them. Now with accountability, you have to account. And we fire them, and worse, we get rid of them. And our vets have a 91% approval rating, the highest we’ve ever had in the VA. You don’t hear those bad stories about the VA anymore like he used to. And now they get immediate doctor attention, if they have to wait on line. I mean, but that’s so many different things. Right to try, where they can try medicines. And I mean, I can give you an example of that with the COVID. Because I was in not great shape, and we have a medicine that healed me, that fixed me. It’s a great medicine. And had I not gotten it, Rush, it would have been in line for another year probably before they brought it out. Great company, two great companies actually make it, make very similar things. But they both work equally well. And we’re going to send it, we’re already sending it and starting the processes. Hundreds of thousands of vials are being sent to the hospitals all over the country. People are going to get immediately better, like I did. I mean, I feel better now than I did two weeks ago. It’s crazy. And I recovered immediately, almost immediately. I might not have recovered at all from COVID. To me, it’s the biggest story, but the press doesn’t even want to report that. They talk about the vaccines, and the vaccines are very important, Rush. But this is more important because we can go into hospitals and clean out the hospitals, literally, with people that… The vaccines are very important, it’s just a different stage. … antibody. This is the antibody. And Regeneron, it’s the most unbelievable thing I’ve ever seen. And I had a meeting with doctors today. It’s always the good thing about when you’re president, 11 doctors show up and they’re all the head of Johns Hopkins and this and that. They’re great people. But Walter Reed is an incredible place. And these 11 guys came in today, they showed me stats. It’s amazing. I don’t know that I would have… I was not in the greatest of shape, a day later I was fine, maybe perfect. But I was fine. But a couple of days later, now I’m free. I feel perfect. I’m not taking anything, I’m off any regimen that they gave me. But it was primarily this one drug. And we’re sending that and the Eli Lilly version of it, which is very similar, we’re sending that to all of our hospitals. We’re going to get people better. We got to get it there fast, that’s why I’m doing an emergency use authorization, I got to get them to approve it really fast. But I gave them my numbers to put in with the other numbers that they already have, which are very good. Excellent. And it’s the most amazing thing. And it’s not Remdesivir, maybe that helps a little bit. But Remdesivir is not the same thing. This is stuff that is so good, it just wiped out the virus. It wiped it out. It’s the most...such a big story to me. Well there’s always that little lingering thing for a couple of days, but no, my voice is now perfect. I mean, for a couple of days you have, it’s called the lingering thing. If you have hay fever, if you have something, you have that too a wee little bit. But no, this is the most amazing thing that’s happened. And I was asking the doctors today, 11 guys, great people, the heads of the biggest hospitals. It’s amazing. I guess the President has a lot of power, but everybody shows up. What do you do? I’m the head of Johns Hopkins. Or, I’m the head of stuff. But they’re very brilliant people. And I said, “How bad was I?” They said, “You could have been very bad. You were going into a very bad phase.” And so it wasn’t like it was just going to, like with the kids where they get it and it get sniffles and they’re better two days later, right? This looks like it was going to be a big deal. And you know what that means, right? That means bad. Because I’ve lost five people, at least five people that were friends of mine. One in particular, an incredible guy who went in there. Went into the hospital, he was dead within three days. And I’m just saying that we have something that will cure this now. And a cure. And without us, without Trump administration, this would never have happened. We poured money into these cures, and we poured money into the vaccines. And the vaccines are coming along great, Rush. I mean the vaccines, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna, Pfizer. They’re all coming along great. A little bit political, they’re afraid it’s going to go too fast and I’ll get credit for it before the election. Well first of all, it’s such a great question. And most people can’t understand it. As an example, I was nominated for two Nobel Peace Prizes. One for-Oh, that’s good. Well, it won’t be written about. When Obama got it, it was the biggest story, I remember very well. He didn’t even know why he got it. He got it almost-That’s right. He didn’t know. He couldn’t explain why he got it, but I can. And one is Middle East peace without any blood. Okay. And by the way, countries are lining up. The other is, if you look at Kosovo and Serbia, they’ve been killing each other forever. And I got them to be peace and good stuff. And then I just heard about the third. Nobody even wrote it. It wasn’t even on the news, okay? I joke about it in speeches sometimes, I’ll joke about it. I say, “I tell my wife, let’s watch tonight. It’ll be a wonderful night.” And they don’t even cover it. They don’t cover any good stuff with me. Anything that’s good they don’t cover. Anything that’s okay, or bad. I mean, bad, they make it sound like let’s do the electric chair thing. The media are the most dishonest people I’ve ever met. And that’s why I go back to the original. I just don’t know why. I mean, they can’t hate somebody so much, but I guess they do. But they do it with Republican conservatives. I mean, you’ve had it before I came along. But I don’t think never to this extent. You know they say, that Newt Gingrich, they said that the one that got worse than me was Abraham Lincoln. I said, “I disagree.” They say Abraham Lincoln was just decimated by the press. I said, “Maybe he was, but it couldn’t be worse.” If I do something good, they make it look bad. If I do something okay, they make it look horrible, horrible. And the reason I talk, and I say it, you might as well talk about it yourself because nobody else will. If I give it to our very good people, Kayleigh, and we have a lot of good people at the White House. If I give it to them to go out, they won’t report it. And did you ever see the way the press, the hostility of the press, the way they scream at these very nice people. They’ll make just an ordinary statement and they’ll start screaming like a bunch of maniacs. The media. It's just incredible. They are sick, it's crazy. Go ahead. Yeah. Which is false. Well Rush, remember how big the wall was? Everything was the wall, the wall, the wall, and it got bigger and bigger because they figured it was no way to get it financed because it’s massive. You know it’s thousands of miles. The whole thing is, it’s a massive project. It’s one of the biggest. It’s actually one of the biggest projects, government projects ever. Anyway, so we’re building the wall, we’re up to 380 miles of wall. Had a huge impact. Nobody gets through this wall. This wall is everything the border patrol wanted. I built it exactly. I didn’t even agree with them on certain parts of it, but I think they were right. They had to have see-through. They had to have this, they had to have that. It’s lined up with all sorts of wires and everything, you can imagine. It is the best. Okay? It’s the best. And it’s had an impact that you wouldn’t believe. And nobody thought I was going to get it done. Now it’s almost completed, it will be completed toward the end of the year. Very soon. And it will be about 535 miles. We may have even extended beyond that. But you have a lot of natural barriers, rivers, and mountains and other things that really do a pretty good job. But we’re going to have it finished very soon. You don’t even hear about it anymore. And you don’t hear about how great the border numbers are. People today, I ended catch and release, which was not easy. Because I had to go through the Democrats. You used to catch somebody, they’d release them into our country. And they’d come back four years later, but nobody would ever come back for a court case. It was the craziest thing. You’d catch somebody, even a murderer, and then you’d release them into our country. And then you’d say, you have to be back here in two and a half years to go to trial. And nobody would come back, only the very dumbest would come back. Okay? And that was about 1%. No, that was about 1%. And it was crazy, catch and release. I mean, there were many programs like that, we got rid of most of them. And it’s not easy to get rid of them, you had to go through all sorts of hoops. But I got rid of catch and release. We have a very good border now. Now only people that come in legally are coming in. Well, the wall made a tremendous difference. But you notice, you never hear about the wall anymore. Right. That's right. They don’t talk about immigration. And we have immigration down really good. In fact, I was going to do an immigration bill. I have it all done. And then my guy said, “Why bring it up, sir? You have the same policies that you’re already implementing. Why should you go through the controversy of it?” I mean, we have a great… The people that wanted the wall, generally love what I’ve done. I mean, because what we’ve done, and immigration. Generally. We’ve got a couple hard liners out there, friends of yours. But the people that wanted the wall, I’ve done far more than I thought. Our immigration now, because it wasn’t just the wall, it’s the wall, but we had to cut a lot of these crazy things out. I mean, you have chain migration where somebody comes in illegally. And we have a killer who killed eight people on the West side highway, ran over eight people. A terrorist, jihadist, came in through the Southern border. And through chain migration, the chain, he brings in his mother, his father, his grandmother, his aunts, his brothers, his uncles. He brings in all these people. And I say, “Wait a minute.” And what we’ve done is incredible, on immigration. Think of it, you have killers that come in, and because of chain migration they’re allowed to bring other people. They don’t want to talk to me about it. So many things like sanctuary cities. The people in California hate sanctuary cities. I don’t know where it gets this political stamina, because the people in California, they see me all the time. I think we’ll do well in California. I mean, in theory you don’t win California, because everybody likes to vote three times. Okay? If you want to know the truth. I don’t know if you ever saw the list, but Oh, the whole thing is crazy. But the people they want to vote, they vote numerous times, numerous times. And it’s disgraceful. But the people in California, they don’t like sanctuary cities. What are you doing with a sanctuary? You’re protecting criminals. Who wants that? And I’ve had so many people, liberal friends of mine from California. “We’d love to get rid of sanctuary cities.” Well that thug from, as you know, Kate’s Law. Remember Kate’s Law, [crosstalk 00:24:19] which should have been… We tried like hell to get it passed. We left the filibuster, okay? We should have gotten rid of the filibuster. Only because I said, “Schumer’s going to do it.” I told Mitch. I said, “Mitch.” I get along great with Mitch. We had the greatest success in history on judges. We’ll be up to 300 judges and two Supreme Court judges. And now three. Hopefully that’ll go quickly. I think she’s going to go very quickly. So I have three Supreme Court judges. But in the first term, they’ll go nuclear, as you know. And that’ll be the end of the filibuster. And they’ll approve stuff left and right, 50%, they’ll go left and right. And that’s the problem I had with it. It’s not that they’re not right, they did it the right way. Harry Reed, we got lucky because Harry Reed thought that Hillary was going to win. And he knocked out the filibuster for the judges. Otherwise, I wouldn’t have 300 judges, I’d have two judges. It’s such an interesting question, because I have done more. We have a list of things that we’ve done. Just go down the list. Even Space Force, that’s a big deal. First in 75 years, right? A new branch of the United States military. That, by itself, is an achievement that you could just do that and you’ve had a successful thing. Space Force, think of it. The Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Coast Guard. We have Space Force, and that’s a big deal. And it’s going to be very important, especially as the future, as it goes. Maybe the most important. But so many things I’ve done, and it’s incredible, people don’t want to talk about it. But I’ll tell you the amazing thing, the one thing I really have learned. The people of our country are smarter than the people that cover them. Because they get it. How can I be in a position where I’m leading in a lot of states? I mean, don’t believe these fake polls. These fake polls, I don’t know if you have a look at them. I don’t even know why they have to put it down, I think there’s a legal reason. But they put down where they interviewed 18% more Democrats than Republicans, Trump is losing by five. Do you understand what I mean? I still don’t know why. (silence) I think there’s a legal reason, because they always say who they interviewed. But when you look down at what they call the tabs, one of them said, “18% more Democrats”. Another one said 14%. Well let’s assume the Democrats are going to vote for sleepy Joe. Which is ridiculous, because Joe shouldn’t be a candidate. Joe is in no condition to be a candidate. … nicely, or we can say it badly. The 25th amendment that crazy Nancy’s playing around with, she’s gone crazy. She’s a nut job. But this 25th amendment, I think they put it in so they can get Kamala in, replace Joe. That was the first thing I thought of. And by the way, the Republicans have been really very good to me. One thing the Republicans have to do though, they have to get tougher. We have some great ones, you know that. Jim Jordan and Meadows has been great. A lot of them. A lot of them have been great. But the Republicans have to get tougher. The Democrats play a much dirtier game. Like impeaching on a phone call. I’ll never forget, “Sir, did you call the President of Ukraine?” “Yeah, I did. Why?” “Just to congratulate.” I had five guys begging me to call him to congratulate. I never met him before, what do I care? So they said, “Did you call the President?” “Yes.” “Well, what did you say?” I said, “I don’t know. A couple of months ago. I called him to congratulate him because he became president. Why what’s [inaudible 00:00:29:26]?” “Sir, they want to impeach you for that call.” I said, ” Impeach me for the call? Impeach me for something, but you can’t impeach me. What did I do? I said congratulations.” It’s unbelievable. By the way, when they found out, they believe the Schiff version of the call. Which he made up standing in front of Congress, okay? Schiff is a real crook. He made it up. He said eight times quid pro quo. Think of what eight times is. That would mean it’s eight times you’ve asked for something illegal on a call. Right? Think of what that means. If the person on the other side of the call, if you did it once, maybe. Twice, maybe. If you did it eight times, I think you’re certifiably insane. Right? So Schiff made up the call. And I said, “Well, there’s nothing wrong with the call.” We actually took the call, because we had the transcript, fortunately. If we didn’t have a transcript, I don’t know. Would have been my word against a lot of these crooked people. But I actually sent it to the Department of Justice, to some division. And they called up, they said, to my people, “Okay, so what are we looking for here?” In other words, these are guys that look at drug deals and murderers. And they’re going like, “Okay. Explain to us, what are we supposed to…” In other words, after having read the call they’ll say, “What the hell is wrong with this thing. Right?” They impeached me. They are meaner and they are… But they have bad policy, open borders, sanctuary cities, high taxes. Right. And has great potential. And America has great potential too. Because any shortcomings, we can solve those shortcomings, but they’re going to make them much shorter. America has tremendous potential. When you look at what we’ve done with energy, and they want to take that advantage away and give it to these other countries that are going to always have energy. When you look at the environment, very important. I love the environment. I want clean air, I want clean water. By the way, our carbon-Oh, it's unbelievable. Yeah, it's unbelievable. Like the forest fires in California. If we had forest management, you wouldn’t have any forest fires. In Europe, you go there, they have forest nations, they call them, Austria, different places. They don’t have the woods burning down, and their trees are more explosive than ours, meaning explosive from potential fire. They have trees, and they maintain their forests. They put cuts in between, so if they have a fire, it doesn’t burn down a half a million acres. They do it properly. Our people don’t do that. Then we talk about they want our air clean, but they don’t talk about China, Russia, India, these other countries where the pollution is massive going up. We have a clean spot on a massive planet. We have a clean spot, which is a small percentage of the planet, a very small percentage of the planet. Then China is spewing crap, and Russia and all of these other… India. Did you ever see what they dump into the ocean that floats into California? It’s unbelievable. We end up cleaning it up, and then they say, well, the environment, the environment. I could tell you hundreds of stories. A lot of what you and I talk about is really based on common sense. People say, “Are you a conservative?” I say, “No, I’m common sense.” Yeah, that's true. That's very true. That's great. Well, I think you’re gonna see that, Rush. I think you’re going to see that come November 3rd and a little before that because our people don’t want to send in these fake ballots that are being fraudulently made all over the place-Yeah, I think you're going to see it. I will. The Democrats are vicious, and they lie. What they do is, as an example, healthcare and other things, they have me standing at a grave of a beautiful soldier in an old cemetery, magnificent cemetery. And nobody respects soldiers more than I do, especially whether you’re talking about live soldiers or soldiers that gave their lives. They have a source say these are suckers and losers. This was for a magazine that’s third-rate, super liberal Obama magazine, and it’s a quote. They took that quote from one source. I have 25 people that verbally on the record said that was never said. Who would ever say that? Only an animal would say that. I know some very bad people. Nobody do I know that would say a thing like that. They put it in ads, they make it like I said it. I never said it, just the opposite. I’ve taken care of the military better than anybody. They do the same thing with healthcare. They will make up a statement that’s so bad. Now, preexisting conditions, I’m totally for it, but I’m against Obamacare because Obamacare is too expensive. I already got rid of the individual mandate, which was the worst part of Obamacare. That’s where you had to pay a fortune for the privilege of not paying for bad health insurance. You understand that, right? So I got rid of it, and I got rid of it through the law. I got rid of it in our tax decrease. We got the biggest tax decrease in the history of our country. We would have never been able to build up the economy if we didn’t get that. But one of the things I got in there, I got rid of the individual mandate. What I want to do is… And we’re fighting to terminate. Sort of I have terminated Obamacare, because once you get rid of the individual mandate it’s no longer Obamacare. But I had a choice to make, Rush. It was a big choice. Do I maintain Obamacare, the remnants of Obamacare after the mandate? Do I maintain it well, or do I run it badly? I could have done it either way. I have very good people over there, Alex Azar and Seema, the whole group. I said, you know what, we’ve got to run it as well as it can be run. I have no choice. I could have run it badly and made everybody angry, but I didn’t do that. I ran it really well. Knowing that it’s run really well, it’s still no good. It’s still not good. It’s much better than when they ran it. They couldn’t even do… Remember, they spent $5 billion on the server, if you remember. They couldn’t get the server right. That's correct. Come up with a great health care plan that’s much less expensive and does include people with preexisting conditions, that’s what I want to do. Now, they’ll also say about Social Security-That’s right. In order to do that… Well, what will happen is if we win, the Democrats will do something to help get healthcare. They’re going to come along because they have no choice. They’re going to come along. They have no choice. I will say one thing. We talk about unity, because I’d like to see the country come together. It’s not as easy as people think. But just prior to the plague coming in from China, when the plague came in from China, we had the lowest unemployment we’ve ever had. We had the best employment. We were up to 160 million people employed. We never were even close. Everybody had a job. Everybody was happy-Ever. That’s right, Rush. We had the best numbers ever. We had the highest stock market. Although I tell you, we’re inches away right now for people’s 401(k)s. If they held on to their stocks, they’re very wealthy right now. And our economy is doing really amazing, considering that we’re in this pandemic thing sent to us by China. But if you look at what we’ve done, and people were calling me, Rush, in terms of bringing our country together, that I really had never heard from before. In other words, they were not interested. They were saying like, “Let’s start getting together.” It was coming together. Success was bringing our country together, and then we got hit by the China plague. But success, Rush, even you might be surprised to hear that. People that you would have said “no way” were calling and saying, “Can we get together?” And it was coming together because success… I’ve always said success will bring us together. Our military is strong. When I took over we had no ammunition. We had a case where a certain general, highly overrated general, told me, “We have no ammunition.” I said, “What are you talking about?” I said, “No president should ever be told that again.” Now we have so much ammunition-He said, “Sir, we have no ammunition.” Okay? I said, “Keep that very quiet.” Then we started building up, and now we have new rockets, new missiles. We have stuff the likes of which nobody… Russia dreams of the stuff that we have. China dreams of the stuff that we have, Rush, and we can’t talk about it, or we shouldn’t talk about it. We have things that I hope to God we never have to use it. Our nuclear is all tippy top now. You don’t want to even say it. We have no choice but to say it. We were so far behind. If you look, I call them Obiden, Obama and Biden, what they did to our military, it just was horrible. That's right. No manufacturing. Right. But it was coming together, Rush. And I’m telling you, and you would be a skeptic maybe almost more than-People were coming together for the first time. For the first time-I think so. That's true. Go ahead. I’ve watched this for a long time. I’ve had it. I’ve probably been a victim of it, you and I and a couple of others, more than anybody, and we’re just the opposite. When they give up, when we’re beating them, they have nothing else to fall back on but the word racist. That means that when you’re winning and you’re just knocking the hell out of them, they have nothing else to say; they call you a racist. This has been going on for decades. I don’t know that you’re going to stop it, but people are wise to it and people are rolling their eyes now. They’re rolling their eyes. It is just an incredible thing. The way they use the racist word is actually disgusting. I was asked by Chris Wallace, who’s third-rate, I was asked by him… He was protecting Biden the other night. It was pathetic. I couldn’t even ask him, “Why did you get $3.5 million from the mayor’s wife of Moscow? Why did you say, ‘A billion dollars unless you get rid of the prosecutor,’ and then you give them the billion dollars?” He was choking like a dog. He wasn’t able to answer, and Chris Wallace would go in and save him every time. That whole thing was disgraceful, but whenever you-What? Oh yeah, absolutely. Okay, go. Well, I think it’s terrible, and you can look at so many other things. Look at fracking. He went for a whole year saying, “No way there’ll be fracking. Mark my words. There will not be fracking,” and so did Kamala. You know Kamala. She’s another great one. They talk about fracking-I thought she was so… Mike beat her so badly the other night. But she’s just not good at what she did. Hey, don’t forget, she started off… She only went down in the polls. That’s usually not the person you want to pick to run for vice president. Anyway, but the both of them, they talk about fracking like it was the greatest sin on earth, then they get the nomination and now they’re talking about they want to do fracking. I find in politics, always follow their first words, because that’s where they’re going. They have no choice. They agreed with Bernie Sanders and all the people on the manifesto. If you read that manifesto, that manifesto is further left than Bernie Sanders, much further left than Bernie Sanders. Usually you think they take them right. Bernie took them left. He took them left of where he was. But if you look at the fracking, the coal, you could say the coal, remember Hillary, three weeks before she went to West Virginia, she was knocking the hell out of coal, and then she forgot she had to go to West Virginia. So she goes to West Virginia and she sat at the table with the miners, and it was just the end of her when she knocked the coal. What they do with coal now, with clean coal, is amazing. We have more than anybody. What they do with clean coal is amazing. We have more energy than anybody, and these other countries who want to take it away with the Paris Accord and all of this, they want to take away our wealth. They want to take away our jobs, our companies. It is disgraceful. Well, basically it’s getting energy out of the ground really efficiently and getting every drop of it. It’s created wealth for our country like you wouldn’t believe. It’s really been over the last small number of years that that’s really become… You used to see these massive oil wells and-They drill sideways. They can drill up and down and around. It’s unbelievable, if you ever watched this process, and they just suck stuff out of the ground that is… It’s just incredible, the technology. And for whatever reason, for our country… We’ve become the biggest oil producer in the world right now by far, not even a contest. We’re bigger than Russia, bigger than Saudi Arabia. It’s good to get along with countries, not necessarily a bad thing, Rush, you understand that, and they cut 10 million barrels a day. It’s actually more than that, but they cut, and we saved the oil. We saved 10 million jobs in this country, and yet everybody has cheap gasoline. Look at the gasoline at $2 a gallon. Nobody thought that would be possible. That’s better than a tax cut. If you want to know the truth, when gas used to go up to $5, $6, and people would say, “Oh, our country,” and they couldn’t buy cars. They couldn’t do anything. We have very inexpensive gasoline, and yet it’s high enough that we have our energy jobs. We have millions and millions of energy jobs in Texas and North Dakota and Oklahoma and Pennsylvania. So Biden goes in. Do you notice they never talk about fracking? He said no fracking, and he’s in Pennsylvania-No. I know. It’s incredible what he said yesterday. I couldn’t believe it, and that’s such a big thing. But think of it. He’s in Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania’s a big, big fracking thing. It’s a million jobs. It’s tremendous energy. They have low-energy cars-He said just the opposite. He said, “There will be no fracking,” and then once he gets to Pennsylvania, he said, “No, there will be fracking.” I couldn’t get away with that. Nobody could get away with that. But they let him. They don’t even ask him a question about fracking. They don’t say to him, “Well, wait a minute. You said you won’t frack, and now you’re saying you’re gonna frack,” because if Pennsylvania believed that, they couldn’t vote for him because he’d put Pennsylvania out of business, along with Ohio and other places. No, he doesn’t get called. I will say this, though. The black community gets it. They don’t dig him. They don’t like him. They don’t like him, and I’m getting numbers. We’re at 20%, 22%, not that I’m proud of that, because it should be 100%. But if you look at what I’ve done for criminal justice reform, Obama couldn’t get criminal justice reform done. I did prison reform. The small colleges and universities, historically black, what I’ve done, I got them funded. They were coming back every year hat in hand, every year begging for money, and I got them taken care of for a 10-year period, all funded, fully funded. What I’ve done is then with Tim Scott, we did the opportunity zones, which is the greatest, the most incredible thing for the black community, the African-American community, with jobs and everything else. No, I’ve done more… I say it. At first, people said, “Oh, it’s too much to say.” I said, “I’ve done more for the black community than anybody since Abraham Lincoln,” and it’s true. Nobody’s done what I’ve done. They don’t like Biden. They don’t like Biden. He did the super predator stuff. He was the super predator king. But he’s a different guy there. You could hear by the way he talks. He’s out of it. Look, he’s out of it. Now, we can’t have a president that’s out of it, because I meet with Xi and I meet with Putin. I meet with all of them. That’s right. He’s a different guy. He’s out of it. He’s in a daze. I look at the things he says. I look at what he says. I look at the way he says it. He’s in a daze. And it’s not because he’s 78 or whatever he is, because I know guys that are 92. Bernie Marcus from Home Depot, he’s 100% sharp. But Joe, there’s something wrong. We can’t have that. We can’t have that. I agree, but he was not able to answer the-I know, highest number ever recorded that they’re better off today than they were at any time before, during a pandemic. That’s what I’ve built. We’ve built this, and the only reason we’re doing well is because the foundation was so strong, Rush, the foundation. If we didn’t have a strong foundation, you’d be 1929. And if he got in, you’ll be 1929, because he’s going to raise everybody’s taxes. They don’t talk about that either. He’s going to raise everybody’s taxes. And you know what else they never talk about? Something that I think is a very important thing, the Second Amendment. They don’t say that he’s going to take away your guns. They never talk about it. That’s right. That’s right. It’s pretty crazy. It’s amazing that here we sit in the White House. Every once in a while, I’ll say, “It’s not fair the way I get treated,” and then I’m sitting in the Oval and I’ll say, “Oh, this is the Oval Office.” It’s pretty amazing, and it’s because the people get it. The people of this country are really smart, and they do get it. The people of the country get it. Well, I’m glad you said it, because if I say it… You said before something, “Why do you say it yourself?” Because I have to, and because nobody else will say it. I tell that to people, “You might as well say it yourself because nobody else is going to say it.” I don’t like saying it. I wish other people would say it, and I love that you can say it. .But the truth is I am a wall, just like the wall we’re building, I’m a wall in between this incredible thing that has such potential. We have something with such potential, you have no idea. Even you might not understand. … take our wealth away. They want to take our jobs away, our factories away. They want us to be in the same position. We’re born on very, very energy… You look at the energy we have, more than anybody in the world. You look. They want to take all of these advantages that we have over other countries and throw them away. .We have such incredible potential, and they want to… I am a wall between the potential of this country to be better than ever before and a country that will become a Third World country, a Venezuela. I used to say we could be Venezuela. I used to say it halfheartedly. It’s true. It’ll be just a massive version. If you look at Venezuela, it’s a massive version of Venezuela. You remember Venezuela 20 years ago-You've got a lot of wealthy friends. Venezuela has gotten so bad, it’s… They don’t have food. They don’t have water. They don’t have medicine. They have lots of wealth too. They have oil. They have lots of wealth, but they have nothing. They’ve gone socialist and probably more. If you look at Kamala, that’s more than socialist. She’s further left than Crazy Bernie, and this is what they want. They wanted her. I don’t know why. I don’t know if they’re happy with her. I think she’s not a good-That’s right. She was so bad, she left before Iowa. And look at Iowa, by the way. You remember the Iowa… Nobody even knows to this day who won Iowa, right? They went with this scheme that now they want to multiply times a thousand on the voting stuff, and wait until you see. I’m sure that you’ll have a question about that, but wait until you see how bad the ballot thing… .All over the country, thousands of ballots are being thrown away and defrauded and cut up, and when they talk about other countries coming in, it’s a lot easier for them to print illegal ballots, I guess you’d say counterfeit ballots, than it is some of the other things that you’re talking about. It’s one scary thing when they send out millions and millions of ballots. You say, “Who’s sending them? Where are they sending them? Who’s bringing them? Who’s reporting them? Who’s signing them?” Millions and millions of ballots. It’s a disgrace, and look at all of the bad things that have happened over the last year with the ballots. Look at Carolyn Maloney’s race in New York, a small race, where so many ballots have been defrauded-Every day. Yes. I'd love to. Well, I’m going to get that one. I’m going to have to put that one up pretty soon. But look, I’m honored by it, and with time, more and more people see the things we’ve done. I’ve put out lists, and they’re pages and pages long. We’ve done a job, and I’m very honored by it and I’m very proud of it. We’ve helped a lot of people. We’ve helped a lot of people. On the pandemic, I was telling you about this medicine. I’m so proud of it. People don’t want to write about it, but that’s okay. This is better than the vaccine, and it’s going out literally as we speak. The U.S. military logistics, they’re bringing it out. This is such a big thing, but we have done such a good job on the pandemic. We get zero credit. We fed these Governors whose shelves were empty and our shelves were empty too. I say our cupboard was bare. And we filled it up with all sorts of stuff and we send it all over the United States. In New York, we built him convention centers that they should have used. We sent ships that they should have used instead of putting old people with other people that were sick and a lot of problems were caused. The 50 Governors, they’re all saying, “Thank you, thank you, thank you.” Rarely do we have anybody speak up, and when they do, we take care of them. And then they’ll go and they’ll speak to the press and they’ll say, “Well, the President was okay.” What we’ve done for them with the ventilators, the ventilators were an impossible situation. We now build more ventilators by five times than anybody else in the world. We’re supplying them to the world, and they’re very complicated, expensive, et cetera, et cetera. But we’ve done a great job. Oh, it was amazing. One of the biggest, I guess the biggest they say, since the Second World War. But you know what? This is the biggest of all. If the Regeneron and the Lilly comparable drug turns out, this is a cure. This is a therapeutic. Call it what you want. I can tell you, it’s a cure and I’m talking to you today because of it, because I think I could have been a bad victim. I fit certain categories that aren’t so great, okay. And you better be careful too, okay. But I’m telling you, this is a total game changer. It’s so good. And nobody else would have had it. FDA is approving things in one week that used to take three years, and that’s only because I’m bugging them like crazy. I drive them crazy I guess, but that’s okay. But FDA, Food and Drug Administration, is approving things that, Rush, would have taken years and I’m getting them in a matter of weeks and months. And they’re great things, but this is the greatest of them all, if this works out, and I’m very sure it’s going to. When was this announced, Rush? I think it's terrible. Think it's terrible fairly recently. If that’s the case, I’m very disappointed. I think it’s a terrible thing, and I’ll say it to his face. That's a disgrace. I think it's a disgrace. It's an embarrassment. I’ve had to go through it twice now with elections. See, this is what I mean with the Republicans. They don’t play the tough game. They don’t play the tough game. If this were the other side, you would have had 25 people in jail for the rest of their lives, with what we found. Oh, are you kidding me? You would have been 20. Look at me. I had to beat off the phony Mueller Report. I had to beat off all this stuff. I had to beat off impeachment. I had to beat off Congress, everything else. They then send it to New York, which is all political. They send the same stuff into New York. Have to beat that off. They got New York all over. They don’t stop. This is a disgrace if that just came out. And I purposely tried to stay away from it because they all say it would be better if I’m not involved. I’ve fully declassified everything. Everything’s been declassified. They have so much information. They didn’t need any more than frankly, Mr. Horowitz, who was an Obama appointment. He wrote a report on Comey that was so bad, it was so bad, I’ve never seen anything like it. And they should have gone after him just on that. And McCabe too. He took $700,000 from Hillary Clinton. If that’s the case, and you have to understand, I’m hearing this for the first time, and I said, “It’s impossible.” So it’s okay for me to have to go through investigations during an election, but for them, we don’t want to upset the apple cart. The Republicans don't play the same game. We caught them, we caught them cold, and we have people that don’t know how to do anything about it. It’s horrible. If that’s the case, I have to check that. I find it hard to believe, because you know what? I went through two elections. You don’t think that affected ’18. Now, I wasn’t running in ’18, but the whole Russia witch hunt affected the ’18 outcome of the election. We lost some Congressional seats. People don’t say we picked up to two Senate seats, but we lost something in ’18. We lost something. We lost some seats that we probably could have held on to. We went through the same thing and it was all phony stuff. Nobody said, “Let’s hold it back til after the election.” But the Republicans don’t play the same game. They don’t play the same game. I’d be surprised and I’d be very disappointed. I’ll probably be disappointed because this stuff should have come out a year ago anyway. They had everything they needed a year ago. I thought it should have come out two years ago. I mean, frankly, as far as I was concerned. Look, if they hold it because of the election, I’ve gone through two elections now. They started investigating me before I even won the election. They started investigating me when I was coming down the escalator, the beautiful golden escalators with the First Lady. I was under investigation illegally by these thieves and Comey and crooks. We caught them in the act. They was spying on my campaign and then they went for a coup. Nobody said, “Well, gee, let’s hold off the investigation.” But with them, they do. The Republicans don’t play it the same way. It’s very disappointing. Let’s let everybody get elected to office and then let’s worry about it. First of all, if we don’t win this election, that whole thing is going to end, okay? And you just remember that. That’s another thing I’m fighting for, because these people have to be brought to justice. But they should have been brought to justice before the election. But if we don’t win this election, if we don’t win that whole thing is going to be dismissed. Just keep up the anger, keep up the genius, because they’re genius, they get it better than these guys that are looking at stuff. I’m telling you, they get it better. The American public gets this better than the so-called people that are looking. When I look at the Times and I look at the Washington Post, fake papers, both of them, and they get Pulitzer Prizes for the Russia investigation, but they were all wrong. There was no collusion. So they get Pulitzer Prizes. No, none of it. And the guys that did get it right, they don’t get Pulitzer Prizes. And you and I can name 10 of them. You’re one of them, but you don’t care about Pulitzer Prizes. But the ones that got it, they don’t get anything. But just, Rush, take a look at how wrong these people were. And they pretend they know me. Maggie Haberman, all of these people. I have nothing against them. But they don’t know me, they don’t know me. I haven’t seen her, I haven’t spoken to her in a year and a half. You take one picture with somebody, it ends up being like they’re the best friends for the rest of your life. Take a picture of the Oval Office with a photographer, with a reporter. And then they write as though you can’t live without them. I don’t even speak to these people. But look at the bad reporting that they’ve done. Look how wrong they were about everything. They got Pulitzer Prizes. The Pulitzer organization, frankly, is a disgrace. They gave Pulitzer Prizes to everybody that shouldn’t have gotten them. They were all wrong. And the people that should get the Pulitzer Prizes didn’t get them. You would think they’d want to take back the prizes on the basis that they made a mistake. I mean, you would think the committee would meet and say, “I’m sorry, but you got it wrong. We’re going to have to remand, we’re going to have to take back the prizes.” But Rush, think of it. They were totally wrong and they all got Pulitzer Prizes. And then they go into another story, it’s the same stuff. It’s so disgraceful when you look at what’s gone on. It’s so dishonest and they knew it. And Mueller was a fraud. The whole thing was a fraud. They were just thugs, thugs. And I’ll tell you something, a friend of mine said, a friend of mine who’s a very smart, very successful guy, lawyer, said, “You must be the most honest guy in the world. You’ve gone through three and a half years of investigations. They found nothing.” And they’ve gotten through my taxes. They’ve gone through everything. Hey, they spent $48 million, I think the last number I heard was, $48 million investigating me. They’ve gone through my taxes. They’ve gone through everything you can imagine at a level that nobody can even believe. Nobody’s ever had to put up and no other President should have to put up with this. But then I hear that they’re not going to do the thing before the election. Why? Because they’re afraid they’re going to influence the election. Because that’s the way that Republicans are. They play so nice all the time. It’s very disappointing. If Bill Barr actually made that statement, I would be very disappointed in him. I don’t know that he made that statement, but if he did do that, I’d be very disappointed. Well, they’ve had plenty of time to do it. They’ve been looking at it for two years. The facts are on the table. All you have to do is take a look at the Horowitz Report on Mueller. Even the New York Times on Mueller and especially what they wrote about this idiot Comey, the world’s worst FBI Director. But not only that, he’s a very dishonest guy. They’re totally aware. No, they’re totally aware. Even the other side’s aware of it. The other side laughs about it. They can’t believe they got away with it, you want to know the truth. They’re not stupid. They’re very smart. The other side laughs about it. It’s not like they believe the Russia thing. They don’t believe it. They laugh about it. Started this investigation, which was long before the race. After I won, they tried to take me out. Before I won, it was a fraud. It was the Russian witch hunt. Rush, you know this better than anybody, and Putin I guarantee you says this to everybody, nobody has been tougher on Russia than I have. I got NATO to pay $410 billion more to protect against Russia. I was the one that exposed Nord Stream, the pipeline going into Germany. I said, “Wait a minute, you’re paying Russia billions of dollars and we’re supposed to protect you from Russia. What kind of a deal is this?” I was the one that gave tank busters to Ukraine and Obama gave them pillows. Remember, the pillows, probably from the Pillow man on Fox. But Obama gave them pillows and sheets and I gave them tank busters. I gave them money. Obama didn’t. Nobody has been tougher on Russia than I have, nobody. She got a statement from Congress, a subpoena from Congress, everybody, “We want your emails,” all of Hillary Clinton’s emails, 33,000 of them. She deleted them, she acid washed them, and she broke her telephones with a hammer, broke them with a hammer. And by the way, speaking of that and speaking to Bill Barr, 31 people deleted their telephone messages from the Mueller Report. And they said they all made a mistake. Well, they made the same mistake. The chances are a billion to one that they would have made the same mistake. 31 phones were wiped clean on the Mueller Report. I want to see those phones. And how do you allow 31 phones? I think it was 19 people, 31 phones, you read about it just recently. They want the phones because they want the information on the phones because we caught them cheating. And they were all wiped, clean. Or most of them were wiped clean. We have a couple believe it or not. But they were wiped clean. They were deleted. Everything was deleted and cleansed, and you’re not allowed to do that. They broke the law. Nothing happens to these people. But they go after General Flynn, they go after Papadopoulos, they go after all these people, it is a disgrace. And one of the reasons I want to win so badly is we’ve got to finish this thing off. And I will be very disappointed if that Axios piece that you read to me is true. I’ll be very disappointed, because they’ve had plenty of time to get this done. Plenty of time. I don’t think the debates mean that much, and I’ll tell you why. I’ve done well with the base. I guess I had 15, I think I won every single poll. I won the poll on this one with him. But I had to be rude because he was lying. He’d get up and he’d just say a series of things, they were all lies. So I’d say, “False.” And they’d say I interrupted them. But if you look at the polls, most polls say I won it with him. But it was a very interesting thing. I’d rather let him speak because he’s gone, he’s mentally gone, and eventually he goes off track and he’ll start talking about the birds and the bees. But I couldn’t do that because he was saying so many false things. He’d say about the soldiers, he’d say about social security, which I’ll protect and he won’t protect, by the way. He’s not going to protect it. He doesn’t even know what it is. He’ll say about social security, and if I didn’t say, “Wrong,” et cetera, et cetera. But the one who protected him was Chris Wallace. And by the way, Fox is a whole different ball game. Fox is a much different thing than it was four years ago. Somebody said, ” What’s the biggest difference?” I said, “The biggest difference is Fox.” You take a look at Fox. Of course, we have our great ones, Sean and a number of them, but you watch this Fox, it’s a whole different ball game. And Paul Ryan is on the Board of Fox, so I’m sure that has something to do with it. But Fox is a whole different ball game. Somebody said to me, “What’s the biggest difference?” I said, “The biggest difference is Fox is no longer the same.” It’s a big difference. Well, that’s why I can talk to you and take literally two hours and your audience is bigger. But why I can talk to you, Rush, the great Rush, and you are the great one, and I’m honored to know you, but I can talk to you and I can spell out all of the dishonesty and everything else and millions of people are listening right now. I hope you have your all time biggest audience. No. But I can talk to you. Now, let’s say, I say, “No, I don’t want to do it,” or I want to be shy. I don’t want to talk, too many people, let’s not talk, no, you have such an incredible audience. So I can tell them about Fox being a big obstacle. It’s a problem. Fox is a problem. When Roger Ailes ran Fox, I mean, Roger had a very strong point of view. That’s totally gone. And I think it’s influenced by Paul Ryan. He’s on the Board. I can’t believe it. Here’s a guy who failed as Speaker. Did you know that Nancy Pelosi issues a subpoena like it’s cookies? Everything you do. “Did you make a phone call 12 years ago? Oh, I’ll issue subpoena.” You couldn’t get a subpoena out of Paul. We have great guys. I mean, we have Jim Jordan and these guys. They’re so fantastic. I deal with them. I deal with them. But they’ve gone a very different. It’s a much different group. They have guys on there that are so bad, they have people, I call them The Twins, there’s Chris Hahn and somebody else. They’re so bad. No, he works for Schumer. They’re Schumer people. How about when they hired Donna Brazile who gave Hillary the questions to the debate? Who got fired, by the way, Donna Brazil got fired from CNN and then Fox hires here. Got no credibility. It’s not like she’s great entertainment. It’s not even good entertainment. When they do that, when they put somebody like a Donna Brazile on, not that she’s effective, she’s not effective. I can think of people I’d much rather not have. It’s a shame. Fox should grab it and they should say, “Hey, we got the President and we’re going to defend out President,” but they’re not. They’re going the way of CNN and they’re going the way of MSDNC, and it’s a shame. I mean, it’s a shame. When I see it, I watch it, I look at the people they hire, I mean, I could tell you some of the anchors, they’re so bad. They’re so bad. And at the same time, the Fox and Friends is terrific in the morning. They’re good. I have to be. I have no choice, because otherwise you couldn’t survive it. Sean is great. And Tucker’s pretty good. Tucker has his moments, in all fairness. But Tucker is pretty good. And Laura has been great. We have a lot of good stuff. But Fox is 50% of what they were. I would say less than 50, but 50% of what they were. That’s still better than nothing. At some point, maybe they’ll go all the way, and that would be fine too. I’ll figure that out. I have figure it out. Because their ratings have died. I haven’t watched a basketball game, and I helped them get open, I haven’t watched a basketball game all year long. I tried to help the NFL. And then Roger, nice guy, Goodell in his basement wearing a very tight blue T-shirt, and he’s not meant for it, nor am I, nor are you, it’s just one of those things, at a certain age, you put on a tie, but what happens is he brought it up again. I said to him, “I thought I taught you a lesson two years ago about standing for the flag.” Their ratings went down to tubes, and now you look at with their hands in the air and they’re kneeling. I just don’t have the same interest, and neither do a lot of other people, Rush. The NBA has become so political that nobody cares about it anymore. I don’t even know who’s playing in the finals. I don’t know anybody that’s watching the NBA. LeBron has been a spokesman. I don’t know him. I never met him. All I know is when he endorsed Hillary, I said, “That’s the greatest endorsement I’ve ever seen,” because when he endorsed Hillary four years ago, she came up to his knee. I said, “That is not the best looking President I’ve ever seen.” I thought that was the greatest. It was standing. They were standing. No, she was up to about his knee. I mean, literally, I’ve never seen anything like it. And I said, “That’s not good.” But LeBron is a spokesman for the Democratic Party, and a very nasty spokesman. Because, again, I’ve done so much for the Black community and people don’t want to see that. And he’s a great basketball player, but people don’t want to see a guy that’s that way. They don’t want to see that. We have enough difficulty during the week, you don’t want to sit down and watch a basketball game and then watch somebody that hates your guts. And he’s a hater. So I look at it and I look at the NBA and I can’t watch it, and nobody’s watching it. And their ratings are down the tubes. And I’m telling you, I haven’t watched a basketball game in a long time. And I have no interest in doing it. And you know what? That’s a very sad commentary because I’d love to. But I just don’t have any interest in it anymore. “Pigs in a blanket, fry them like bacon.” The first time I ever heard of Black Lives Matter I said, “That’s such a terrible term because it’s such a racist term. It’s a term that sews division between Blacks and Whites and everybody else.” And it’s a very bad term for Blacks. But they were very angry. It’s a Marxist organization. It’s, “Pigs in a blanket, fry them like bacon.” Who are they referring to? New York City policemen. And I said, “Wow.” And if you would have told me that was going to go mainstream, but it never did go mainstream. It never did go mainstream. Absolute heroes. Yeah, well, it’s the Liberal Democrats, radical Liberal Democrats. Look, New York, Rudy was a great mayor. Rudy was our greatest mayor by far. He did things that were incredible and brought back New York. But it was easier in a way because the police had total respect. There was crime, but the police were the police. When they dumped water a year ago on the policemen head and he didn’t do anything about it, like turn around and slug the guy, when they did that, I don’t know if you remember, New York’s finest, New York’s finest, these are great police. I got endorsed by new York’s finest one month ago, and it’s the first time in the history of New York City that they’ve endorsed the President. Everybody. I don’t think anybody … In fact, I asked Biden at the debate and, of course, Chris Wallace cut it off, didn’t think it was appropriate. I said, “Name one police organization that endorsed you, Joe?” Then I said, “Say law and order, Joe, just law and order.” He wouldn’t do it. He wouldn’t do it. Then I think he said, “Law and order and safety.” I said, “No, no, just law and order. Law and order means safety. You don’t have to add the word safety.” That’s that little net. Let me tell you, if he got in, this country is going to hell. This country is going to go to hell like you’ve never seen. And you’ll end up in a depression the likes of which you haven’t seen since 1929. Your taxes are going up, your regulations. In the biggest tax cuts in history, bigger than Reagan’s tax cuts, I did something that was more important. I cut regulations that you couldn’t build a highway in less than 10 years. I mean, it would take you 10 years to get things done, or not done in one year. In other words, it may get disapproved because it’s not safe or environmentally good, or a lot of good reasons. But I cut regulations from 19 years to one year. I mean, you wouldn’t even believe it. People had to go through the same agency 14 different times. I have to be the one, yeah. Nobody else seems to be able to tell it properly. So I’d like to see it happen because it wasn’t … Look, a lot of people are being hurt because of China. It wasn’t these people’s fault. I would like to see it bigger, because maybe it helps or maybe it hurts negotiations. I would like to see a bigger package. I’d like to see money going to people. It was not their fault that China sent in the plague. It wasn’t their fault. And China’s going to pay a big price. China was going to catch us in 2019. If you look back 15, 20 years ago, everybody said by 2019 China will beat us. I was beating them so badly. We were doubling up. We were doing great until the plague came in, and we’re still beating them badly. We’ll still be. If you have a smart guy at top, you’ll always beat them. They’re paying us billions and billions of dollars in tariffs. People don’t realize when I made the deal. They’re paying billions of dollars. I gave a lot of it to farmers. Billions of dollars. Well, they devalue their currency and they make it impossible to compete because they devalue their currency. They’re currency manipulators and they devalue their currency, and therefore the dollar, they’re using dollars of a different value and it makes it very easy for them to compete, whereas we don’t do that, we don’t play games like that. Some people say we should. I don’t have a viewpoint, but they devalue their currency and they do all sorts of things. And what they do in the World Trade Organization, we just want a case, seven and a half billion dollars. First time-World Trade Organization. We just won a case, $7.5 billion. First time we’ve won a case in a long time. I said, “Look, I’m going to get out of the World Trade Organization if I have to, just like I got out of the World Health.” So we were paying $500 million a year in World Health. China’s paying $39 million a year in World Health. I say, “Why are they paying… they’re a bigger country. Why are they paying so much less?” I asked these little, stupid questions like that. Nobody could give me an answer. And yet they dominate the World Health. Okay? They dominate World Health. And World Health, when they did this horrible thing to us, World Health did nothing whatsoever to help us. We’re at $500 million a year. So I terminated the deal. Totally in the tank. They think about World Trade… By the way, same thing about World Trade. Do you know in World Trade China is considered a developing nation? If you’re a developing nation, you get tremendous advantages in the World Trade Organization. A hundred percent. And I ended that. I said, “I’m not going to accept that there a developing nation.” I wouldn’t say China’s in love with me, by the way. China is dying. Here’s what will happen. Just a couple of predictions. If I win, we’ll have a great deal with Iran within one month. They’re dying to have me lose, but if I win-No nuclear weapons. Don’t forget. Look at what’s happened to terrorism. Iran was a very wealthy nation, given $ 150 billion plus $1.8 billion in cash by Obama. A very wealthy nation, and now they’re a very poor nation. And the terrorist organizations, I knock on wood as I say it because it’s easier to start something, but they’re not fighting like they used to. You know why they have no money? Because Iran is bust. Iran is bust because of me, because of sanctions and other things. And the whole picture of terror… You don’t see the terror now. I hate to say it on an important show like this, but I’ll say it. You don’t see the terror the way you used to see the terror. And they know if they do anything against us, they’ll pay a thousand fold a problem. They’re going to have a thousand fold difference because they know now that we have things that we never had before. We have strength in weapons and things that we never had before. We never had it like we have it now. And Iran knows that. And they’ve been put on notice: if you fuck around with us, if you do something bad to us, we are going to do things to you that have never been done before. And they understand that. But here’s the thing. They’re no longer rich and they’re not giving out hundreds of millions of dollars to Hamas and all these other groups that caused all the problems. Now, nobody brings it out. When was the last time you saw an attack? Well Rush, this is the...I appreciate that very much. It's an honor. I know you do. And this is the most important election that we’ve ever had. And I used to say ’16, I don’t even get into that anymore. That’s over. This is the most important election that this country has ever had on so many different fronts. There’s never been anything like it. We will go the way of failed nations all over Latin America, South America. We will go the way of failure like nobody’s ever seen in a scale like nobody’s ever seen it. We’ve been taken advantage of by every nation in the world, including our friends. Our friends sometimes are worse than our enemies. We are… What I’ve done with NATO, we were taking care of virtually a hundred percent of the military needs of Europe, guarding them from Russia. At the same time, they would taking advantage of us on trade, and in many ways they were worse than China. Europe was worse to us on trade than China was. I mean, and I changed so many things, but then they say, “Oh, in Germany, they don’t like Trump as much as they liked Obama.” Well, of course they shouldn’t like me because Germany was taking advantage of us. Few countries took advantage of us. Nobody even knew about that pipeline until I brought it up. I said, “Why are you paying Russia billions of dollars when we’re protecting you? Tell me what kind of a deal is this? We’re protecting you, but you’re giving Russia every month billions of dollars.” She smiles because she’s a very smart one, she knows it. There’s no way she can answer the question. I say, “You don’t have to answer the question Angela.” I like on Angela. I get along with her, believe it or not, quite well, but she’s a player. And I said, “Angela, don’t answer the question because I don’t want to embarrass.” There’s no way she could answer the question because she gets away with it. That’s why. She’s a very smart cunning person. But I caught them. Hey Rush, I got them to pay $130 billion going to $410 billion more each year against Russia. Now I get along with Putin. I like Putin. Putin probably, possibly, likes me, but I guarantee you one thing, he would have much rather seen crooked Hillary and I guarantee he’d rather see Biden because Biden is slow. Biden is not equipped to be president. The sharpest people. They’re 85, they’re 80. It’s not an age… now they’re all saying, Oh, it’s 78. It’s not because he’s 78. There’s something wrong with him. Okay? And we can be nice about it-There’s something wrong with him, and nobody wants to say it. Nobody wants to say it, but he can’t… His thoughts are bad… Here’s a guy, you talk about access to the press. I’ve never seen this before, and I’ve watched a lot and I don’t know how it gets away. You saw that NBC joke the other night where there’s… It’s like a child. Like you’re asking a child questions. They don’t talk to me that way. When you look at the questions that he gets, and then he reads the answers off a computer. Now that means that these supposedly legitimate, but they’re not legitimate… You know that better than I do… These news organizations are giving him questions, they’re putting them in a computer, he’s reading the answers off a computer. I never heard of that before. I’ve never done that. Can you imagine? Give me the questions and I’m going to give you an answer off a computer. He’s reading the answers off a computer a lot of times. And if he doesn’t do that, he’s all mixed up and befuddled. And Chris Wallace saved him three times the other night. I mean, he was getting ready to crack, and Chris Wallace… Who was terrible by the way, who I think really embarrassed himself and Fox the other night. But Chris Wallace saved him. But can you imagine, you’re getting the answers to questions and you’re getting the questions themselves and you’re reading the answers-One thing I’ll say, Hillary was a much smarter. Hillary is a much smarter person. I mean, look, Hillary was smart. Yeah, I understand. Hillary didn’t need to have answers read. She could answer a question. Joe can not answer a question. Joe, they ask him a question, a very simple question, and he’s reading it off a computer. He’s saying, “Move the computer. Move it, bring it closer, bring it…” He couldn’t see it. “Bring it closer.” On a question that that anybody could answer. I mean, it’s a very simple question. We can’t have this. We could be nice, and maybe I’ll lose because they’ll say I’m not a nice person. I think I am a nice person. I help people. I like to help people, but we can’t have this as our president. We really can’t, Rush. You’re right. We would be, but still that’s a much different man talking there than you see now. Much different man. Well, look, absentee ballots where you send in via ballot… I have an absentee ballot in Florida. You send in, and you have to request it, and they send it. So it’s not easy, but it’s okay. Some people just can’t do it, but they send it. That’s called absentee. I call it a solicited ballot. I like that term better. You solicit, and they send it, and you’d fix it and you’d send it back in. Okay. That’s one thing. But they’re sending out millions and millions of ballots. Are they sending them to all Democrats? Who are they sending them to? Where are they going? Et cetera, et cetera. This is going to be the second biggest political scandal in history. The first biggest is the Russian crap that we’ve been going through for three and a half years. That’s the biggest. To me, that’s the biggest political scandal in history-What we’ve been going through and now they delay it? You’re telling me they delay it? That’s going to be my first phone call, by the way. I think it’s just a disgrace, if that’s the case. It’s a disgrace. And I’ll say it to anybody who wants to say it. That’s a disgrace. But the biggest scandal of all time is that. This will be the second biggest scandal. Every day I’m seeing accounts of ballots that are thrown away. You saw the military ballots that with thrown away with my name on it the other day? Every day, you see scandal about these millions of ballots that’s being sent out. It’s the single biggest risk in this election. We have many lawyers and we’ve actually been winning many cases. How about where they have the ballots counted and the ballots have to be in by November 3rd election day, but they don’t have to be counted for two weeks later. Well, that means you’re never going to know who won the election. It’s going to be two weeks later? I want to see you on November 3rd, who won the election. So do you. You want to turn on your television, like we have for the last 50 years and find out who won the election, right? You don’t want to say, “Oh, gee, they have two weeks to count their ballots.” And then what happens is all sorts of ballots starts showing up miraculously. We’re watching it very closely and we’re winning a lot of cases, Rush. You don’t see it too much. We just won a big case in North Carolina. We just won a big case in Pennsylvania, I think we’re going to win. We’re winning a lot of cases… Rhode Island, won a big case… where the ballots have to be done in a certain way, but the best way is to get up… Now, I tell you what. Our people, your people, my people, Republican people, they get out… And they’re all my people as far as… Everyone’s my people, but Republicans tend to get out and vote. And that’s what they should do. Early voting, but at a machine. Early voting or voting on November 3rd. And when you see the love that’s going to be expressed the day those polls open, the day those machines open wait till you see. But the Democrats are sending an 80% of theirs by ballot. Now, one thing we’ve noticed from what I hear and from what I’m reading, is a lot of the ballots, all they’re doing is taking from people that would have voted in the first place. So not a lot of new voters. We have many more registered voters than we’ve… We’ve picked up a lot of voters, the Republicans. I think you’re going to see a very, very big explosion when those polls open up, Rush. But a large percentage, like 80% of the Republicans want to vote. They want to actually go to a poll and vote. Whereas it’s almost the opposite, for whatever reason, with the Democrats. I think you’re going to see a very big explosion of voting. Right, right. And then they do the harvesting thing, which is terrible, which is illegal in many places, even with the laws that are being passed, where they go around and this start picking up everybody’s votes. We have a big enthusiasm gap. Our gap is so much more enthusiastic, like 30, 35 points. There’s never been a gap of enthusiasm between, let’s say me and him, that there is. Look at a boat shows. I mean, thousands of boats in the ocean, in the lakes-By a lot. They say, "Who is your neighbor going to vote for?" They know their neighbors. No, because people don’t want to get involved. I mean, even the signs, we have signs all over the place. We have signs in States, but they steal the signs. People steal the signs and they’re stealing… It’s a well-known thing. They’re stealing the signs. Our enthusiasm is far greater than it was four years ago, far greater because they love the job we’re doing. And they know this pandemic was a horrible thing that happened to us. It should have never been allowed to happen by China. China is going to pay a big price, and it’s one of those things, but it happened and we’ve done a great job. Why don’t we got no credit? I’ll tell you what, if this turns out to be right, that this medicine is going to make people better. That’s a game changer like nobody’s ever seen before, and it’s going to happen. It’s going to happen, Rush. That’s true, but it’s an honor. It’s an honor to be with you for two hours. You have no idea. It’s a great honor. It is largely. And what I say oftentimes when people say that, “I have no choice, I have to do it.” I have no choice. And that’s what I’m doing. 
















